URL: https://fortune.com/2023/12/04/annual-performance-reviews-outdated-bias-hurting-employees-company/
TITLE: Annual performance reviews are probably hurting your company | Fortune
Annual performance reviews are outdated and they’re probably hurting your company Good morning! The end of the year is quickly approaching, and for many companies that means annual performance reviews— and all the agony  that comes along with them.  Criticism of performance reviews is certainly  not new . But they’ve come under renewed scrutiny as organizations and their HR teams evolve their talent practices. One in four employees believe their performance reviews were negatively affected by their supervisor’s personal biases,  according  to a recent survey of more than 1,000 full-time workers from Syndio, a technology company that helps employers  including Walmart and Salesforce  analyze race- and gender-based pay gaps. Asian employees were 54% more likely to perceive negative bias than white employees, and LGBTQ+ workers were 35% more likely to perceive bias compared to their non-LGBTQ+ peers. This perceived bias can create a domino effect for both the employee and the company.  Performance reviews often inform an employee’s bonuses and promotions, meaning a poor rating can seriously impact their career growth. “If potential bias exists, it’s impacting more than an annual raise or bonus payout,” says Katie Bardaro, Syndio’s chief customer officer. “It can have lasting detrimental effects on the employee’s lifetime earnings.” As for the company, performance reviews perceived as biased can also hurt employee morale, tanking engagement and worker retention. “Humans are hardwired for fairness, so if there’s any concept that there’s a lack of fairness there, they’re going to look elsewhere,” Bardaro says. Both workers and managers want more sunlight on promotion decisions based on performance reviews. Forty-three percent of employees believe their organization is opaque about promotions, and 36% of managers and leaders agree that promotions should be more transparent, the same study found. Yet 60% of companies still follow the “status quo” performance rating process, or annual reviews conducted by a limited scope of reviewers, such as managers or senior peers. Large organizations, employing 15,000 or more workers, were most likely to rely on annual reviews, with 73% reporting taking part in the practice. Making performance reviews more frequent can help make them more equitable. The tech sector is the most likely to conduct reviews more often, with 52% doing so, including  Google ,  Adobe , and  Netflix . Manufacturing and healthcare, on the other hand, were the industries least likely to adopt more frequent reviews, at 23% and 30% respectively.  Bardaro recommends that in addition to formal performance reviews, managers and employees engage in more frequent informal check-in conversations.  “Reviews are very time intensive,” says Bardaro. “[Establishing] more quick hit performance conversations more regularly is better not only for the employee, as we’ve seen from our survey, but also for the organization. It’s less distracting from the work that has to be done to drive the business forward.”  “Everyone just wants to know they’re on the right path,” Bardaro adds. “If you’re waiting all the way until the end of the year to know that, it’s wasted months of you potentially being totally on the wrong path.” Paige McGlauflin paige.mcglauflin@fortune.com @ paidion The most compelling data, quotes, and insights from the field . Are company talent networks—usually consisting of generic application forms that promise applicants a recruiter will reach out when a relevant position becomes available—actually  serving their intended purpose ? Some job seekers express frustration over applying to dozens of these networks and never hearing from a single recruiter. Hiring professionals, on the other hand, say they do recruit from them, but rarely receive applications specifically indicating what roles the candidate could fill. A round-up of the most important HR headlines. - New York City-based management consultancy PwC is using live, interactive trivia games to boost their employees' AI knowledge and proficiency.  WorkLife - Johnson & Johnson has hired thousands of data scientists in recent years to help discover new drugs using AI.  Wall Street Journal - The share of employed college-educated moms with children under 10 years old increased by around 10% in the past 20 years, with a specific surge in the years following the pandemic.  Axios Everything you need to know from  Fortune . Dream job . Tech startup Prophetic is developing a headpiece that it says would  allow users to control their dreams  and add extra hours of work productivity—users could code or practice for meetings while they sleep. — Rachyl Jones Publisher purge . Vox Media, which publishes  New York Magazine  and  The Verge , announced last week it was  laying off 4% of its staff . This is their second round of layoffs since March. — Samantha Stewart, Bloomberg Season of slimming . Retailers in the U.K. are  rushing to hire a growing pool of short-term workers  for the holiday season, but their American peers are slowing down holiday hiring significantly from previous years. — Ryan Hogg This is the web version of CHRO Daily, a newsletter focusing on helping HR executives navigate the needs of the workplace.  Sign up  to get it delivered free to your inbox. The Latest © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .