URL: https://fortune.com/crypto/2023/12/04/bitcoin-surge-reaches-40000-prompting-crypto-watchers-scammer-warnings/
TITLE: $40,000 Bitcoin: What it means | Fortune Crypto
Bitcoin hits $40,000, and some worry that could be a signal to scammers Let the good times roll. After being stuck near the $38,000 mark for weeks, Bitcoin soared more than 5% on Sunday as it  crossed $40,000  for the first time since April 2022. While this is still a ways from the currency’s all-time high, the return of $40,000 Bitcoin is a significant psychological milestone and has triggered a wave of digital backslapping on the echo chamber known as Crypto Twitter, where too many of us spend far too much time. The glee over $40,000 was tempered by warnings, however. Some longtime crypto watchers warned the recent price action will bring about the full-blown return of the hucksters and scammers who made the industry so notorious in the past. Crypto journalist and  Fortune  alum David Z. Morris put it  this way : “Hope you guys enjoyed chilling, once we cross $40k the normies will be back and things will get stupid and mostly bad again. If history teaches us anything, the enforcement actions of the past two years will mean exactly nothing because a whole new crop of morons will arrive.” Morris wasn’t the only one making this observation. And it’s a fair concern since previous booms have gone like this: Bitcoin goes on a run, leading to buzz on social media, which pulls in a new crop of green investors, 95% of whom eschew any basic research as they try to get a piece of the new thing. It’s not long before a good number of them stray beyond the confines of Bitcoin, Ethereum, and the handful of other reputable cryptocurrencies and—egged on by financial predators—purchase an “up-and-coming” token instead. Months later they find themselves holding a near worthless pool of BARF tokens and cursing the gym trainer or YouTube guy ( hey there, Lark! ) who persuaded them to set their modest savings on fire in the first place. I have no doubt these forces are already revving up and, if Bitcoin approaches its all-time high of nearly $69,000, the con artists will return en masse. But I’m not quite as cynical as Morris. Despite the here-we-go-again sensation, there are three reasons to think this latest crypto bull market will be less driven by scams than the previous ones. The first is regulators. Unlike the booms of 2017 and 2021, when the SEC and others sleepwalked through mind-boggling frauds, the agencies are hovering like a bad-tempered hawk looking to shred anything that even smells like crypto. Second is the industry itself. Those left standing, including Coinbase and some of the better venture capitalists, are sick of being pilloried for the sins of the crooks in their midst—and just might be more forceful in denouncing the bad actors. Finally, after the myriad scams of the last go-round, many investors will have learned their lesson and only come back to crypto cautiously—if they come back at all. “This time it’s different” is usually terrible investment advice (which this is not!), but there’s no denying the crypto industry is older and wiser, which has to count for something. Time will tell if crypto’s worst moments are in the past—or if a new crop of Sam Bankman-Frieds and Do Kwons wait in the wings. Jeff John Roberts jeff.roberts@fortune.com @jeffjohnroberts A federal judge rebuked the  SEC  in regard to a crypto investigation, asking the agency to explain why it shouldn't be sanctioned for apparently lying in a recent application for a temporary restraining order. ( Fortune ) Circle  sent a letter strongly refuting allegations by Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) that the company helped finance Hamas and that it has ties to shadowy billionaire Justin Sun. ( Unchained ) A report points to a recent proliferation of  NFT art  and  Bitcoin  chatter in Williamsburg as a sign crypto sentiment is resurgent in the  Brooklyn  neighborhood. ( Bloomberg ) Celsius  announced a new scaled-down plan run by an outfit called  US Bitcoin  to manage its mining operations as part of its restructuring in bankruptcy. ( WSJ ) In a Q&A,  Franklin Templeton's CEO  explained her firm's enthusiasm for blockchain technology, especially its potential to lower transaction costs. ( Fortune ) Bitcoin $40K, LFG :   This is the web version of Fortune Crypto, a daily newsletter on the coins, companies, and people shaping the world of crypto.  Sign up  for free. © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .