URL: https://fortune.com/2023/12/04/starbucks-founder-howard-schultz-you-can-do-right-by-your-people-and-your-shareholders-at-the-same-time/
TITLE: Starbucks founder Howard Schultz: 'You can do right by your people and your shareholders at the same time' | Fortune
Starbucks founder Howard Schultz: ‘You can do right by your people and your shareholders at the same time’ Good morning, Fortune  publishes lots of corporate lists–with companies ranked by size, rate of growth, social impact, reputation, employee satisfaction, innovation, and more. You can see them all  here .  It is one way we make business better. But this morning, I want to focus on a list that  isn’t  published by  Fortune : the American Opportunity Index. It was the brainchild of the folks at the Schultz Family Foundation, working with The Burning Glass Institute and Harvard Business School, and it is notable for two important reasons: Such big data efforts suffer from the common problem of dirty and inconsistent data–but this is still an admirable attempt to assess whether companies are adequately contributing to the urgent task of creating opportunity for people who’ve been left behind. In short, it’s about restoring the American Dream.   Starbucks  founder Howard Schultz told me he and his wife Sheri created the index “because we believe CEOs and corporate directors in every industry have tremendous power to create opportunity and upward mobility for millions of American families–and it doesn’t have to be zero sum. You can do right by your people and your shareholders at the same time.” And now the drum roll, please. Top 10 on this year’s list: 1-Coca-Cola 2-J.M. Smucker 3-W.W. Grainger 4-PNC Financial 5-ServiceNow 6-Meta Platforms 7-Capital One 8-Bank of America 9-Costco  10-Intuit A few other interesting tidbits:  Amazon  (#27) outranked  Walmart  (#77), which surprised me. Among the big banks, Capital One (#7) and  Bank of America  (#8) outranked JPMorgan (#13); and  Citigroup  (#61). In big tech, after  ServiceNow  and Meta came Salesforce  (#23), then Amazon,  Adobe  (#31),  Microsoft  (#41) and  Oracle  (#63). In hospitality, Marriott (#48) and  Hilton  (#50) were neck and neck. But it’s worth noting that ALL the companies mentioned above were in the top quartile of the 396 Fortune 500 companies that were ranked (104 were excluded because of insufficient data.) Kudos to all.   You can explore the list  here . Other news below. And today’s must-read is the fabulous profile of investor  Joshua Kushner , brother of Jared, who played a critical role in financing OpenAI, written by  Fortune  Editor-in-Chief Alyson Shontell. Alan Murray @alansmurray alan.murray@fortune.com 'We are out of money' The White House has issued a stark warning to congressional leaders that the U.S. is set to run out of funds to aid Ukraine by the end of the year, adding that inaction would effectively "kneecap" Kyiv. “There is no magical pot of funding available to meet this moment,” the White House budget director Shalanda Young wrote to party leaders in the House and Senate on Monday. "We are out of money–and nearly out of time."  Financial Times Spotify cuts jobs Streaming giant, Spotify is axing around 17% of its workforce–or roughly 1,500 jobs–as the company seeks to become “relentlessly resourceful in the ways we operate, innovate, and tackle problems."  Despite efforts to reduce costs, including two rounds of layoffs earlier this year, the Stockholm-based company is still spending too much money.  What’s more, CEO Daniel Ek revealed in a  company-wide memo  that Spotify still has too many people “doing work around the work rather than contributing to opportunities with real impact.”  Wall Street Journal Bill Gates says Paris goals won't be achieved Microsoft’s Bill Gates said the world probably won’t meet the Paris Agreement’s goal of keeping global warming below 2 degrees Celsius–but he’s still optimistic when it comes to preventing the worst effects of climate change. "Fortunately, if you stay below 3 degrees Celsius, a lot of the ill effects that people have heard about don't happen unless you really are irresponsible and let it get up to the higher range,” the billionaire philanthropist said.  Bloomberg These nine successful CEOs were high school sports stars: Here are the lessons they’ve taken from the pitch to the boardroom  by Orianna Rosa Royle Broadcom CEO tells VMWare workers to ‘get butt back to office’ after completing a $69 billion merger of the two companies  by Paolo Confino Sam Altman sheds light on feud with Elon Musk: ‘The closer people are to being pointed in the same direction, the more contentious the disagreements are’  by Steve Mollman Even the U.S. president’s return-to-office push is being ignored by workers: ‘They aren’t coming back’  by  Steve Mollman Lucid dream startup says engineers can write code in their sleep. Work may never be the same  by Rachyl Jones This astronaut was rejected by NASA three times. Here are his secrets to perseverance  by Alexa Mikhail T his edition of CEO Daily was curated by Orianna Rosa Royle.  This is the web version of CEO Daily, a newsletter of must-read insights from Fortune CEO Alan Murray.  Sign up  to get it delivered free to your inbox. © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .