URL: https://fortune.com/education/business/best-mba-programs/
TITLE: Best MBA Programs in 2023 | Fortune
Best MBA Programs in 2023 Earning an MBA is an investment that can accelerate your career and pave the way to a high salary. Fortune Education wants to help you decipher the best of what the business school landscape has to offer. For the third year in a row, we ranked full-time MBA programs. In total, 81 schools are included in our 2023 Best MBA ranking.
 3. University of Pennsylvania (Wharton) 4. Yale University 6. Columbia University 7. University of Chicago (Booth) 8. Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Sloan) The Online MBA From Pepperdine University 9. New York University (Stern) 10. University of Michigan–Ann Arbor (Ross) 11. Duke University (Fuqua) 12. Cornell University (Johnson) 13. University of Virginia (Darden) UNC Kenan-Flagler’s top-ranked online MBA 14. University of California–Berkeley (Haas) 15. Dartmouth College (Tuck) 16. University of California–Los Angeles (Anderson) 17. University of Texas–Austin (McCombs) 18. University of Southern California (Marshall) The Online MBA From Rice Business 19. Carnegie Mellon University (Tepper) 20. Emory University (Goizueta) 21. University of North Carolina–Chapel Hill (Kenan-Flagler) 22. University of Washington (Foster) 23. Georgetown University (McDonough) UNC Kenan-Flagler’s top-ranked online MBA 24. Rice University (Jones) 25. Indiana University (Kelley) 26. Vanderbilt University (Owen) 27. University of Notre Dame (Mendoza) 28. Georgia Institute of Technology (Scheller) The Online MBA From Syracuse University 29. University of Rochester (Simon) 30. University of Minnesota–Twin Cities (Carlson) 31. Michigan State University (Broad) 32. University of California–Irvine (Merage) 33. University of Wisconsin–Madison The Online MBA From Rice Business 34. University of Florida (Warrington) 35. Fordham University (Gabelli) 36. University of Texas–Dallas 37. Howard University 38. Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey–Newark and New Brunswick Maryville University Master of Business Administration | Online 39. Washington University in St. Louis (Olin) 40. University of Maryland–College Park (Smith) 41. Texas A&M University–College Station (Mays) 42. Brigham Young University (Marriott) 43. Southern Methodist University (Cox) The Online MBA From Pepperdine University 44. Boston University (Questrom) 45. University of Utah (Eccles) 46. William & Mary 47. CUNY Bernard M. Baruch College (Zicklin) 48. University of Arizona (Eller) The Online MBA From Rice Business 49. Texas Christian University (Neeley) 50. Babson College (Olin) 51. University of Pittsburgh (Katz) 52. University of Tennessee–Knoxville (Haslam) 53. American University (Kogod) UNC Kenan-Flagler’s top-ranked online MBA 54. University of Massachusetts–Amherst (Isenberg) 55. University of Denver (Daniels) 56. Case Western Reserve University (Weatherhead) 57. Pepperdine University (Graziadio) 58. University of San Diego (Knauss) The Online MBA From Syracuse University 59. Syracuse University (Whitman) 60. Tulane University (Freeman) 61. Hult International Business School 62. University of Houston (Bauer) 63. University of Oregon (Lundquist) The Online MBA From Syracuse University 64. Baylor University (Hankamer) 65. Bentley University 66. University of Oklahoma (Price) 67. Morgan State University (Graves) 68. University of Cincinnati (Lindner) The Online MBA From Syracuse University 69. Lindenwood University 70. Pace University (Lubin) 71. College of Charleston 72. Texas Tech University (Rawls) 73. University of Texas–San Antonio The Online MBA From Rice Business 74. Clark University 75. Appalachian State University (Walker) 76. Rochester Institute of Technology (Saunders) 77. John Carroll University (Boler) 78. University of South Florida The Online MBA From Syracuse University 79. Marquette University 80. Kent State University 81. Xavier University The Online MBA From Syracuse University Frequently Asked Questions An MBA, or master of business administration, is an internationally recognized graduate-level degree in business leadership and management that  can help you advance  in your current industry or change fields. Most MBA programs have a core curriculum focusing on business fundamentals, and full-time programs typically take two years to complete. A full-time MBA program requires students to completely immerse themselves in their coursework, group studies, and typically complete an internship. These sacrifices can pay off; the median salary of MBA grads, at $115,000, is 77% higher than people with a bachelor’s degree alone. And some recent MBA grads are fetching  $200,000 or more . Pursuing an MBA can be hard for students because they must transition back to academia, find the right balance between school and personal obligations, and make the most of  networking  and other opportunities that are a core part of business school programs. Learn more about what you  should consider before you apply . Most full-time programs take two academic years to complete, with an  internship  during the summer in-between. However, some business schools offer  12-month  degree programs. Some students from top-ranked business schools fetch pay packages  exceeding $400,000  in their first roles out of school, depending on their chosen industry. In 2021, Harvard Business School grads netted average pay packages of $217,000, Wharton’s graduating class had a median base salary at $155,000, and more than one-third of Stanford’s latest class went into finance, where they earned $310,000 pay packages. Most full-time MBA programs are designed to be treated like a job, with a full schedule of coursework and other school-related obligations like group projects. If you don’t want to give up a paycheck while attending school, a  part-time ,  online  or  executive  MBA program may be a better fit. Part-time MBA students  continue working and earning a salary, while applying lessons learned in the classroom in their current roles. These programs are best for people who want to advance within their current company or industry. Full-time MBA students fully immerse themselves in their business education, pursue an internship, and are often looking to switch careers. A traditional MBA refers to a full-time program that typically takes students two years to complete. Classes are typically conducted in person and on campus for traditional programs, and business school is a full-time endeavor for these students. Online MBA programs  allow for more flexibility in students’ schedules , but traditional full-time programs offer students more personalized coursework and the opportunity to take full advantage of internships, networking, and other career resources. Traditional MBA programs are best for people who are switching careers. A traditional MBA program can be an asset for professionals at any point in their career who are looking to switch careers, while the  executive MBA option  is geared toward more seasoned professionals who want to land a C-suite role. Fortune’s  ranking of the best traditional MBA programs stands out by finding schools that not only offer comprehensive curricula, but also see their students achieve competitive salaries after graduation.