URL: https://fortune.com/2023/12/02/ai-chip-export-controls-china-nvidia-raimondo/
TITLE: AI chip export controls on China underfunded: Raimondo | Fortune
‘We cannot let China get these chips’: Commerce Secretary Raimondo says more funding needed for AI export controls US Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo said her department needs more money to stop China from catching up on cutting-edge semiconductors. “We cannot let China get these chips. Period,” she said at the Reagan National Defense Forum in Simi Valley, California, on Saturday. “We’re going to deny them our most cutting-edge technology.” To do that, Raimondo said the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security, which manages export controls for the US, needs more funding from Congress. “I have a $200 million budget. That’s like the cost of a few fighter jets. Come on,” she said. “If we’re serious, let’s go fund this operation like it needs to be funded.” Raimondo said American companies will need to adapt to US national security priorities, including export controls that her department has placed on semiconductor exports. “I know there are CEOs of chip companies in this audience who were a little cranky with me when I did that because you’re losing revenue,” she said. “Such is life. Protecting our national security matters more than short-term revenue.” Raimondo called out  Nvidia Corp. , which designed chips specifically for the Chinese market after the US imposed its initial round of curbs in October 2022. “If you redesign a chip around a particular cut line that enables them to do AI, I’m going to control it the very next day,” Raimondo said. The Commerce Department updated the semiconductor curbs this fall to capture Nvidia’s made-for-China chips — and the company responded by  designing  three new AI components for the Asian country. Communication with China can help stabilize ties between the two countries, but “on matters of national security, we’ve got to be eyes wide open about the threat,” she said. “This is the biggest threat we’ve ever had and we need to meet the moment,” she said. — With assistance from Mackenzie Hawkins The Latest © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .