URL: https://fortune.com/2023/12/03/sam-altman-elon-musk-openai-ai-tech-feud/
TITLE: OpenAI CEO Sam Altman sheds light on feud with Elon Musk | Fortune
Sam Altman sheds light on feud with Elon Musk: ‘The closer people are to being pointed in the same direction, the more contentious the disagreements are’ Sam Altman and Elon Musk are hardly strangers. The CEOs of OpenAI and  Tesla , respectively, have dined together and shared a stage. They worked together to launch OpenAI in 2015 to counter Google’s dominance in artificial intelligence. But these days the tech luminaries are not on great terms. They’ve often swiped at each another on social media and in other public venues. So what happened? Obviously the direction OpenAI has taken plays a role (see below), but Altman described another element to help explain the falling out in a Sunday  New York Times   article .  “There is disagreement, mistrust, egos,” he told the paper. “The closer people are to being pointed in the same direction, the more contentious the disagreements are. You see this in sects and religious orders. There are bitter fights between the closest people.” Altman and Musk certainly seemed pointed in the same direction during a dinner  in 2015  at the Rosewood Sand Hill, a luxurious ranch-style hotel in Silicon Valley. Google had just acquired  DeepMind , a neural networking startup based in London, which made it the most likely company to develop artificial general intelligence, or AGI, a system that can match humans when faced with an unfamiliar task. At the dinner, the two men, along with others gathered, discussed starting an AI lab that would be transparent, open-source, and dedicated to democratizing the benefits of advance artificial intelligence. Musk and a few other members of the “ PayPal  mafia”—including Peter Thiel and Reid Hoffman—invested millions to get the lab rolling. ‘Not what I intended at all’ OpenAI launched in 2015, but after a power struggle, Musk parted ways with it in 2018. The nonprofit, needing financial and computing resources, turned to  Microsoft , which, starting in 2019, committed to investing billions into it. Altman formed for-profit company under the nonprofit, an  unusual structure  that contributed to him being briefly  fired then rehired as CEO last month . Since parting ways with OpenAI, Musk has expressed disgust with its direction under Altman, especially after OpenAI accepted billions in investments from Microsoft.  “OpenAI was created as an open source (which is why I named it ‘Open’ AI), non-profit company to serve as a counterweight to Google, but now it has become a closed source, maximum-profit company effectively controlled by Microsoft,” he  tweeted  earlier this year. “Not what I intended at all.” Musk has long warned of the potential danger advanced AI poses to humanity, but he also sees its promise if developed safely. Via his startup xAI, last month  he announced Grok , an AI chatbot to rival OpenAI’s ChatGPT, the release of which late last year kicked off the current AI boom.  Altman quickly  roasted Grok , suggesting on  X  that it “answers questions  with cringey boomer humor  in a sort of awkward shock-to-get-laughs sort of way.” Musk  shot back  that OpenAI’s GPT-4—which he dubbed “GPT-Snore”—lacks a sense of humor, calling it “about as funny as a screendoor on a submarine.”  Altman called Musk a “jerk” during the  On With Kara Swisher  podcast, though he acknowledged the role he played in attracting top AI talent to OpenAI. Musk was  pivotal to recruiting  from Google OpenAI chief scientist Ilya Sutskever, who joined other board members in firing Altman last month, only to  backtrack  soon after.   Part of feud may stem from Musk’s personality. He’s also traded barbs with  Amazon  founder Jeff Bezos for years as the two have  competed in their space ambitions . And he broke off his friendship with Google cofounder Larry Page, a falling out that  he said  stemmed largely from Musk poaching Sutskever. “He has a style that is not a style that I’d want to have for myself,” Altman said of Musk on the Swisher podcast. But Altman  also said  that Musk “really does care about a good future with AGI,” which gets back, perhaps, to his more recent comments that “the closer people are to being pointed in the same direction, the more contentious the disagreements are.” How long their bitter fight continues remains to be seen. © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .