URL: https://fortune.com/2023/12/04/khosla-ventures-openai-sam-altman/
TITLE: Vinod Khosla details how much his venture firm had on the line before Sam Altman’s reinstatement at OpenAI | Fortune
Vinod Khosla details how much his venture firm had on the line before Sam Altman’s reinstatement at OpenAI There are only a few venture capitalists who elicit the kind of Silicon Valley celebrity status as Vinod Khosla. After stepping off stage from an interview at a startup pitching competition in downtown San Francisco on Friday, Khosla was immediately bombarded by dozens of entrepreneurs elbowing their way to make an introduction (and this reporter, who has been itching to ask him a whole list of questions about Sam Altman). Khosla granted half a dozen selfies as he made his way to the exit, and answered questions rather politely—with smiles, nods, and pleasantries as he was accosted with an ever-running stream of rapid-fire company explanations and business cards. I finally got a hold of him for a couple minutes as he slipped through the crowd, hoping I could get some kind of answer to the question that’s been on all of our minds the last two weeks: Had any new information come to light about  why  OpenAI’s board fired Sam Altman in the first place?  Khosla politely refused to answer. “I can’t talk about it,” he told me, though he declined someone’s offer to escort him away from me, allowed me to ride with him down the escalator, and told me to send him an email. (If this newsletter makes it to you, Vinod, I’m still hoping we can set up a time to talk!) Khosla didn’t share all that much about the OpenAI saga on stage on Friday, which I attribute to a moderator who asked him all of one question about OpenAI and never brought up anything about Sam Altman over a 36-minute discussion. The one question Khosla was asked about OpenAI he readily answered, laying out how big of a bet he made on the GPT creator as its very first VC investor. In 2019, Khosla Ventures wrote a $50 million check into OpenAI, he said, though he notes it was “almost impossible to diligence” as OpenAI had such an  unusual governance structure . “I made the largest bet by a factor of two of any initial investment I’ve made in 40 years,” Khosla said, noting it was because of his initial conviction in how AI would transform everything. “We stay with that conviction,” he said on Friday. It’s remarkable that, just weeks ago, all of Khosla’s stake in OpenAI was on the line. In a profile of Khosla published on Friday,  The Information  specified that Khosla Ventures took a 5% stake in the AI developer in 2019, which is now worth billions of dollars with the pending tender offer (which, by the way, is still in the works, someone involved tells me). If Altman hadn’t returned to OpenAI, under threat of nearly all of its employees quitting in protest of Altman’s termination, VCs could have easily seen their shares of the company become worthless. In that profile, Khosla said he realized he’d erred when his firm invested without discussing or considering that the nonprofit board really oversaw the for-profit enterprise, not Altman. “To be honest I had a close enough relationship with Sam that I figured there wasn’t the risk of something like this. I probably should have worried about it. But I didn’t,” he said. It’s still unclear exactly how things will play out at OpenAI, as changes are still underway. OpenAI  announced  the latest in a blog post last week: with three board members out, former Salesforce executive Bret Taylor and former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Larry Summers stepping in, and Microsoft getting an observer seat. Importantly, Taylor, who is the new board chair, is overseeing an independent “review” into Altman’s termination, which I expect will surface all the under-wraps details around why Altman was given the boot. But as all this is underway, Khosla, who is now 68 years old, seemed as excited as ever about his work on Friday as he answered vague questions on stage with poise, and readily quipped (to another VC) about how nearly all investors give completely worthless advice.  Khosla departed the Hilton with a smile and on his own terms. He assured the moderator he could see himself out as he was swarmed by people. After 40 years of investing, he clearly still has it—even if the biggest bet of his career seems to be on such shaky ground. And now for December’s cartoon … See you tomorrow, Jessica Mathews Twitter:   @jessicakmathews Email:  jessica.mathews@fortune.com Submit a deal for the Term Sheet newsletter  here . Joe Abrams curated the deals section of today’s newsletter. VENTURE DEALS -  Bright Uro , an Irvine, Calif.-based manufacturer of medical devices for lower urinary tract symptoms, raised $23 million in Series A funding.  Laborie Medical Technologies  led the round and was joined by existing investors. -  Kognitos , a San Jose, Calif.-based business automation platform, raised $20 million in Series A funding.  Khosla Ventures  led the round and was joined by  Clear Ventures ,  Engineering Capital , and  Wipro Ventures . -  Safi , a London, U.K.-based marketplace for trading recyclables internationally, raised $19.5 million in Series A funding.  Nosara Capital  led the round and was joined by  LowerCarbon  and  Transition . -  Culmination Bio , a St. George, Utah-based disease-agnostic patient data intelligence platform, raised $10 million in funding from  Amgen Ventures  and  Merck GHI .  -  Pepper Bio , a Boston, Mass.-based AI-powered platform designed to make drug discovery and development faster and more precise, raised $6.5 billion in seed funding.  NFX  led the round and was joined by  Silverton Partners ,  Merck Digital Sciences Studio ,  Mana Ventures , and others. -  Velca , a Madrid, Spain-based e-bike and electric motorcycle manufacturer, raised €5.3 million in Series A funding.  Sherry Ventures ,  Noso Capital , and  BeHappy Investments  led the round and were joined by others.  PRIVATE EQUITY -  Truelink Capital  acquired  Ansira , a St. Louis, Mo-based marketing services and solutions company. Financial terms were not disclosed. -  Yieldstreet , backed by  Mayfair Equity Partners , agreed to acquire  Cadre , a New York City- and Chicago-based commercial real estate investment manager. Financial terms were not disclosed. OTHER -  Insight Enterprises  acquired  SADA , a Los Angeles, Calif.-based provider of cloud consultancy and technical services. Financial terms were not disclosed. This is the web version of Term Sheet, a daily newsletter on the biggest deals and dealmakers in venture capital and private equity.  Sign up  for free. © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .