URL: https://fortune.com/recommends/banking/best-savings-accounts/
TITLE: Best savings accounts of December (with rates up to 5.40%) | Fortune Recommends
Best savings accounts of December 2023 Since March 2022, the Federal Reserve has  increased its target rate 11 times —and banks have followed suit. That’s great news for savers, as savings account interest rates are reaching new heights every day.  That said, not all savings accounts are created equal, and interest rates are just one piece of the puzzle. You also want to put your money where you won’t incur any unnecessary fees or have to maintain a huge balance to earn the advertised rate.  So if you’re looking for the right place to keep your savings but aren’t sure where to start, don’t worry: we’ve got your back. The Fortune Recommends team regularly reviews more than 60 high-yield savings accounts to bring you our top picks based on  annual percentage yield (APY) , deposit requirements, fees, and more. You can read our full methodology here . Best savings account rates 10 savings accounts with the highest yields today We rounded up accounts currently offering APYs of more than 5% to help you choose the best account for your savings. Here’s a quick look at 10 high-yield savings accounts available today with rates of  5.25% APY and up. Popular Direct  is an online banking platform offered by Popular Bank, a subsidiary of Popular, Inc., a national full-service bank that has been serving customers for over 120 years. Popular Direct offers a variety of deposit products, including high-yield savings accounts and CDs to customers across the U.S., Puerto Rico, and the Caribbean. The high-yield savings account from Popular Direct has the highest rate among the banks on our list with 5.40% APY. You’ll need at least $100 to open an account.  My Banking Direct  is an online-only bank and division of Flagstar, N.A., a regional bank with a significant retail presence in the Midwest and California. Its high-yield savings account offers a highly competitive 5.35% APY. Savers will need at least $500 to open an account and maintain a minimum balance of $500 to earn this great rate. The good news is there are no monthly fees associated with the account. An online-only division of Webster Bank, Brio Direct specializes in providing market-leading savings and CD rates. Accounts can be opened online within minutes. The high-yield savings account from Brio Direct comes with an impressive 5.35% APY. The catch: savers need at least $5,000 to open an account and must maintain a balance of $25 to earn the disclosed APY. But like the other accounts on this list, there is no monthly maintenance fee. Ivy Bank is a digital financial institution backed by Cambridge Savings Bank, a well-established community bank that has been serving customers since 1834 throughout the greater Boston area. Ivy Bank was established to provide high-yield savings products to customers nationwide. The high-yield savings account offered by Ivy Bank comes with an impressive 5.30% APY. The catch? You will need a fairly large opening deposit of $2,500 to qualify for this rate. The good news? This account’s APY is guaranteed through June 30, 2024. Plus, there are no minimum balance requirements or monthly fees. Founded in 1998,  TAB Bank  is an online-only bank with the mission of providing banking services to underserved individuals and businesses.  TAB Bank offers a high-yield savings account with 5.27% APY—11 times the national average. You only need $0.01 on deposit to earn this rate and there is no ongoing minimum balance requirement (or balance cap, for that matter). There are also no monthly fees. You may have never heard of Cloudbank 24/7 before, but rest assured that they’re a legitimate financial institution offering some of the most competitive online deposit accounts today. Cloudbank 24/7 is a digital bank that’s backed by Third Coast Bank SSB, a community bank that operates in Texas. It specializes in providing online banking products with competitive interest rates. The high-yield savings account from Cloudbank 24/7 offers a market-leading 5.26% APY. It’s accessible through Raisin, a free digital savings marketplace that connects individuals to banks and credit unions offering their best digital-only rates and products (all financial institutions on Raisin are federally insured). In other words, you’ll need to open an account with Raisin in order to secure this great rate, and Raisin will handle everything from deposits and withdrawals, statements, and customer service (rather than Cloudbank 24/7). Western Alliance Bank is a regional bank headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona. It was established in 2009 and primarily offers commercial banking products and services. It operates in key markets across the U.S. and offers services such as commercial loans, treasury management, international banking, and more.  That said, Western Alliance Bank also offers and opportunity for individuals nationwide to take advantage of its high-yield savings account through the Raisin platform. It offers a whopping 5.25% APY and a minimum opening deposit of only $1. In order to open this savings account, you must create a Raisin account (you can’t open one directly with the bank). Milli  is a mobile-only bank, meaning managing your Milli accounts is done from a mobile device, as there are no physical branch locations. But don’t worry, Milli isn’t some fly-by-night app; it’s a division of the First National Bank of Omaha (FNBO), a subsidiary of First National of Nebraska and among the largest privately-owned banks in the country. Milli’s high-yielding savings account not only comes with zero fees or minimum deposit requirements, but also pays an impressive 5.25% APY. To help you better manage your savings, Milli also offers a “jars” feature, which lets you separate out your savings by goal. UFB Direct  is the online banking division of San Diego-based Axos Bank. It’s known for offering competitive interest rates and fee structures due to lower overhead costs compared to traditional brick-and-mortar banks. UFB Direct a handful of banking products, including high-yield deposit accounts and  mortgages . You can earn an impressive 5.25% APY with the Priority Savings account from UFB Direct. The account boast no fees or minimum deposit requirements, and comes with a complimentary ATM card.  Valley Direct was launched in 2020 as the online division of Valley Bank, a regional bank headquartered in Wayne, New Jersey that was established in 1927. Valley Direct offers high-yield savings and CD accounts that are available nationwide. Valley Direct accounts are opened and managed online (there are no physical branch locations). It only takes $1 to open the high-yield savings account from Valley Direct, which offers a competitive 5.25% APY. There are no monthly fees and no minimum balance requirement. However, accounts may be closed if the balance remains at $0 for 60 days or more. ______ Our picks for high-yield savings accounts in November 2023 When evaluating the best high-interest savings accounts available today, we considered which ones offer high interest rates, low (or no) fees, ATM access, online and mobile banking, and more. Further, each account is backed by the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  (FDIC) and insured up to $250,000 per depositor, per account, giving you peace of mind that your savings are protected no matter what Note:  APYs in our list below are up to date as of November 20, 2023, but are subject to change. Founded in 1998,  TAB Bank  (short for Transportation Alliance Bank, Inc.) is a technology-driven, online bank serving small businesses, families, and individuals nationwide. It offers a wide range of deposit and lending products with competitive rates and rewards programs. TAB Bank has the best terms of any financial institution we’ve reviewed. With a standout 5.27% APY and a bunch of “nos” in all the right places (no minimum deposit, balance, or account fees), those looking for a top-notch savings rate could stop their search here. SoFi  is an online bank that offers a wide variety of banking, lending, and investing products and services to its members. In addition to being FDIC-insured, SoFi is one of the few banks offering extra FDIC coverage of up to $2 million per depositor at no additional cost. SoFi offers a whopping 4.60% APY on your savings—plus an additional 0.50% APY on your checking balance—when you open both a SoFi checking and savings account and set up direct deposit. Setting up direct deposit also makes you eligible for a welcome bonus of up to $250. UFB Direct  is a division of  Axos Bank  that specializes in providing high-yield, low-cost banking products, including savings accounts, money market accounts, and mortgages. The high-yield savings account from UFB Direct ranks as best when it comes to convenience. For one, it includes a complimentary ATM card and a huge ATM network that allows you to access your money across the country. UFB Direct also provides 24/7 phone support, as well as a highly rated mobile app and robust digital tools.  FNBO Direct  is an online-only bank and division of First National Bank of Omaha (which has been around for more than 165 years). It specializes in offering fee-free high-yield checking and savings accounts. The high-yield savings account from FNBO Direct came in first in our rankings for the best security features. As an online bank, it leads the pack in terms of its security. With FNBO Direct, you can rest assured that your money and identity is protected by robust security features, including fraud protection measures, multi-factor authentication, website encryption, and more. Oh, and it comes with an impressive 5.15% APY.  SoFi  once again tops our rankings with its high-yield savings account.Banking with SoFi means banking on your terms, whether you want the flexibility to boost your earnings or let the occasional overdraft slip through without fearing excessive fees. That’s why it came in first place in our rankings for flexibility. This SoFi checking-savings combo comes with a debit card and access to 55,000 surcharge-free ATMs across the country. Members also get access to exclusive rewards, like up to 15% off at qualifying local retailers and cash back on spending. Headquartered in Chicago, CIBC Bank is backed by a 150-year-old global financial institution. Its online-only banking division,  Agility Digital Banking , provides a small suite of high-yield products, including savings and CD account. CIBC is a great choice for those who want a high yield on their savings  and  appreciate a personal touch, which is why we named it No. 1 for customer service. Not only does Agility savings account provide 5.01% APY with no minimum balance required, it also offers extensive customer service hours, including evening and weekend access, in a time zone that’s convenient no matter where in the U.S. you’re located. ______ High-yield savings accounts: Everything you need to know A  high-yield savings account  isn’t that much different from a  traditional savings account . Both are deposit accounts offered by financial institutions that allow you to set aside money and earn interest on the balance. The primary difference is that a high-yield savings account offers a much higher annual percentage yield (APY) on your funds than a typical savings account. And through the power of  compound interest , you’ll earn interest on the principal balance and any interest you earned previously. That means you’ll essentially earn interest on your interest, allowing your savings to grow that much faster. That said, there are a few other features of high-yield savings accounts that are important to understand: Financial institutions set their savings account rates loosely based on the  federal funds rate . This is the interest rate that banks charge other banks to lend money overnight. When the  Fed raises its rates , this can increase the cost of borrowing and push banks to raise their APYs to attract new customers.   The interest rate on a savings account is typically variable, meaning it can fluctuate over time. These rate changes are influenced by several factors, including monetary policy set by the Federal Reserve, general economic conditions, and competition among banks. It’s a good practice to periodically check the interest rates on your savings accounts and compare them with rates offered by other institutions to ensure you’re maximizing your earnings. What’s considered a “good” interest rate on a savings account somewhat depends. The national average savings account rate is 0.46%, so a rate above that benchmark would be considered above-average. However, many banks offer high-yield savings accounts offering as much as 4% to 5% APY. It pays to shop around to find the highest rates available if you’re looking for a new account. The interest rate on a savings account is essentially the base rate. The APY provides a more comprehensive view of your earnings by factoring in the effects of compounding and calculates how much you’ll earn over the course of a year. To determine how much $1,000 will make in a high-yield savings account, you need to know the APY of the account and the length of time you plan to keep the money deposited. Additionally, the frequency of interest compounding (daily, monthly, or annually) can impact your final amount. For example, if you deposited $1,000 into a high-yield savings account that earns 5% APY and compounds annually ,  you’d have a total balance of $1,050 at the end of one year (assuming you don’t make any more contributions). If the interest compounds daily, you’d have a bit more: $1,050.01 If you deposited $10,000 into a high-yield savings account that earns 5% APY and compounds annually ,  you’d have a total balance of $10,500 at the end of one year (assuming you don’t make any more contributions). If the interest compounds daily, you’d have $10,512.67. In general, HYSAs are highly liquid accounts, meaning it’s fast and easy to access your funds when needed. Federal law used to dictate that account holders could transfer funds out of their accounts up to six times per month. However, this rule was paused in 2020 and you can now make an unlimited number of transfers and withdrawals from savings accounts in many cases. However, some financial institutions still limit the number of withdrawals allowed per month and may impose a fee for excessive transactions. High-yield savings accounts are generally safe, especially when they are held at banks that are insured by the FDIC or at credit unions insured by the NCUA. Both entities insure deposits up to $250,000 per depositor, per institution, for each account ownership category.  The interest you earn in a high-yield savings account is usually subject to income tax. If you earn $10 or more in interest from a savings account in a year, the bank or financial institution will send you a Form 1099-INT, which reports the amount of interest you earned. Even if you don’t receive a Form 1099-INT (e.g., if you earned less than $10), you’re still generally required to report and pay tax on any interest income. .pros_cons {text-align: center;}.pros_cons div {vertical-align: top;display: inline-block;text-align: left;width: 300px;}.pros_cons ul{display: block;overflow: hidden;padding-left: 0;}.pros_cons li {padding: 0 7px 7px 25px;display: block;overflow: hidden;}.pros_cons div:first-child li {background: url('https://content-develop.fortune.com/wp-content/themes/fortune/client/src/images/pros.svg') no-repeat 0 4px;}.pros_cons div:last-child li {background: url('https://content-develop.fortune.com/wp-content/themes/fortune/client/src/images/cons.svg') no-repeat 0 4px;} Before you open a high-yield savings account, it’s important to consider the pros and cons of putting your money in one. Of course, one of the biggest benefits of a high-yield savings account is that you can earn higher interest rates on your balance. For example, the national average savings account rate is just 0.46% APY today, while some of the high-yield accounts on our list have rates above 5.00%.  You can also rest assured that your money is safe in a high-yield savings account, which unlike some types of investments, will never allow you to lose money. Plus, most high-yield accounts are insured by the FDIC (banks) or  NCUA  (credit unions) up to $250,000 per depositor, per institution in the event of a  bank failure .  That said, there are some downsides to keeping your money in an HYSA. For one, even high-yield savings accounts don’t offer the same level of earnings as  investing your money in the market. But high-yield savings accounts are still sensitive to market fluctuations, and the APY can go up or down at the discretion of your bank.  You may also be limited in how many monthly withdrawals you can make. Your financial institution might charge a fee for each additional transaction over the limit. A high-yield savings account is an important tool that just about anyone should have as part of their larger financial plan. That said, an HYSA can be particularly useful when pursuing certain financial goals. A few  common ways to leverage a high-yield saving account  include: However, a high-yield savings account isn’t always the best place to put your money. There are other types of deposit accounts to consider as well: High-yield  savings accounts and CDs  are both savings vehicles that offer higher interest rates than traditional savings accounts. However, while high-yield savings accounts provide relatively easy access to funds with a variable interest rate, CDs lock in your money for a specified term (from a few months to several years) at a fixed interest rate. Withdrawing funds from a CD before its maturity date typically incurs a penalty, which can reduce the earned interest. On the other hand, high-yield savings accounts may have limits on the number of monthly withdrawals but offer more liquidity than CDs. When choosing between the two, it’s crucial to weigh the importance of access to funds against potentially higher fixed returns with CDs. HYSA vs. money market account High-yield savings accounts work similarly to  money market accounts  (MMAs) in that you’ll earn interest on your balance and can easily access your funds. While high-yield savings accounts prioritize offering a competitive interest rate, MMAs often combine the features of both savings and checking accounts, providing both interest earnings and more flexible access to funds, such as through checks or debit cards. However, MMAs might require higher minimum balances to avoid fees or to earn the advertised rate.  Overall, a high-yield savings account would be the best choice in situations where you prioritize earning a competitive interest rate on your money while maintaining relatively easy access to the funds, without exposing the principal to market risk. How to choose the best high-yield savings account for you Choosing the right high-yield savings account requires careful consideration of your financial needs, preferences, and goals. Here are a few considerations to keep in mind as you shop around. How to open a high-yield savings account When you’re ready to open an account, you’ll follow these general steps: Our methodology  To narrow down our top picks for the best high-yield savings accounts, the Fortune Recommends™ team evaluated more than 60 online savings accounts from a variety of traditional brick-and-mortar banks, online banks, and credit unions.  All the accounts on our list are available to customers in the U.S. no matter where you’re located, subject to the terms of each account. The savings accounts on this list offer an APY at least 10 times the national average.  We ranked each account in these five core categories:  The rates and fee structures for the accounts mentioned are available for limited periods, and APYs are subject to fluctuation, which could impact how much interest you earn. All the bank accounts and credit unions on this list are insured by the FDIC and NCUA, respectively. To open an account, financial institutions, including banks and credit unions, require a deposit of new money, so you may not be able to transfer money you already had in an account at that bank.  We measured the same savings accounts and chose our top pick based on the following metrics:  EDITORIAL DISCLOSURE : The advice, opinions, or rankings contained in this article are solely those of the Fortune Recommends ™   editorial team. This content has not been reviewed or endorsed by any of our affiliate partners or other third parties. © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .