URL: https://fortune.com/customerservice/
TITLE: Customer Service Portal | Fortune
Customer Service Portal Fortune.com Digital Paywall Subscribers Digital Fortune.com subscribers can manage their subscription 24 hours a day by signing in at  www.Fortune.com  and visiting the “My Account” tab located on the top right. Through the “My Account” page, Fortune.com Digital subscribers can manage their profile, contact customer support, upgrade their subscription, update or add new payment methods, adjust renewal settings, view receipts and account history. Alternatively, subscribers may contact us directly by emailing  support@fortune.com . If you are a  print-only subscriber , you can manage your print-only subscription  here  (https://fortune.com/printonlysubscription) by entering your account number and zip code. Alternatively, print-only subscribers can send an email to our dedicated print team at  ForCustServ@CDSFullfillment.com . Magazine-only Subscribers *U.S. & Canada  only subscribers,  manage your subscription online , send us an email at  ForCustServ@CDSFulfillment.com , or call us at: 1-800-621-8000 (Mon. – Fri. 7AM-9:30PM CST and Sat. 8AM-6PM CST). *International  subscribers, please visit the site below for your region: Asia Pacific New Subscribers:   https://subscribenow.com.au/fortune/asia/offers Existing Subscribers:   https://www.subscribenow.com.au/fortune/asia/Solo Email:  fortune@subscribenow.com.au Europe, Middle East, and Africa New Subscribers:  https://www.subscription.co.uk/fortune/europe/offers Existing Subscribers:   https://www.subscription.co.uk/fortune/europe/Solo Email:   fortune@subscription.co.uk Frequently Asked Questions Can’t find the answers in our FAQ?  Email us at  support@fortune.com  and we’ll be happy to answer any questions you have. Our digital subscription offerings are detailed at  https://fortune.com/subscribe . Digital subscribers in the US and Canada may pay with credit card, debit card, including  Visa ,  Mastercard ,  American Express , Discover and UnionPay. Fortune also accepts payment via  PayPal  and Apple Pay. For subscribers located outside the U.S. and Canada, we
accept payment in US Dollars, via any of the methods above, for any
subscription tier.  Your payment method will be charged automatically on a recurring basis and your subscription will be renewed automatically. You will be charged in advance of each billing cycle unless you turn off auto renewal or cancel. Please view Fortune’s Terms  here . Digital subscribers can update their payment information online. Please make sure you are signed in to Fortune.com and go to the  My Account  page (found at the top right of site). Navigate to the “Payment” tab and click “Add Card” on the right side of the screen to add your preferred payment method. If you subscribed via the App Store, you must visit that site to update your payment information. Digital Monthly subscribers can terminate their subscription by signing in to Fortune.com and navigating to the  My Account  page and turning “OFF” auto-renew in the  Subscriptions  tab. You will have access to the end of that paid period and will not be charged for future terms.  If you are an Annual Subscriber, you may cancel anytime. Please note there will be no refund, however you will maintain access through your current subscription period. To cancel, you can send our team a direct message using the “Customer Support” tab located on the  My Account  page. (My Account -> “Customer Support” Tab -> “Get Help!” Button) In your message, please, include “why” you wish to cancel so that we can process your request promptly.  The cancellation of a Monthly subscription will become effective at the end of your current billing period and we will stop charging your account. Your subscriber benefits will continue for the remainder of the current billing period.  When an Annual subscription is cancelled there will be no refund; however, you will maintain access through your current subscription period.  If you are prompted on our website with a message that notes a Fortune.com subscription is required, please click the sign in link in the message. You can also log on by clicking “Sign In” at the top right of the Fortune.com site. Check your spam and junk folders for an email from  fortune@msg.fortune.com . If you still do not see the email, please email  support@fortune.com.  Be sure that you are signed out of Fortune.com before you click on the link to reset your password. If you are unable to get full site access, first try signing out and signing back in (see SIGN IN at the upper right corner of the Fortune.com homepage).  Furthermore, if necessary, we also suggest deleting your browser’s cookies, restarting your browser, and then try signing back in. Further issues can addressed with our Customer Support team via the tab in your My Account or emailing us directly at support@fortune.com. Thank you for subscribing. Please visit Fortune.com and Sign In with your email address. You can also find the login link by clicking “Sign In” at the top right of the Fortune.com site page. Due to E.U. Privacy Laws, even if you are a digital subscriber, you will have trouble viewing the site if your browser cookies are disabled. Please ensure your cookies are enabled on your browser/device to ensure an optimal experience on Fortune.com. Fortune offers a range of newsletters, including daily and
weekly editions.  Fortune newsletters
offer a sophisticated point-of-view of the most pressing issues of the moment,
and a carefully curated collection of must-read articles from across the web. To view and sign up for any of the free newsletter options
Fortune has to offer, please sign up at  https://mynewsletters.fortune.com/subscribe You may change your newsletter subscriptions at any time. Click the link at the bottom of any newsletter to get to your account page.  Under Newsletters, find the full list of newsletter options. The checkboxes indicate which newsletters you are currently subscribed to. Then click “Manage” to subscribe or unsubscribe from a newsletter. Most newsletters from Fortune are free to read in your email inbox.  However, if you want to read them on Fortune.com that will require a subscription to one of our paywall Fortune.com tiers. You may subscribe to as many as you would like to receive.  There is one newsletter currently, Fortune Analytics, that is only available to subscribers of Fortune.com’s paywall. You can edit the email address where you receive newsletters by emailing  support@fortune.com . Sometimes email providers inexplicably decide newsletters
are spam. Please check your spam folder for the newsletters you have been
missing. If you are using Google’s Gmail, check your Promotions tab as well.
Not all Gmail users will have a Promotions tab, but often emails from companies
end up here. Open up the last newsletter you successfully received to
find the instructions at the bottom of each newsletter to update email
preferences. You’ll be able to add yourself back to newsletters here. Please note: selecting “Unsubscribe” at the bottom of any email from Fortune will remove you from just that email list tied to that particular newsletter. You can manage your email preferences (or unsubscribe from a newsletter) from your account homepage or from any newsletter (or email) you receive from Fortune. To purchase a print magazine subscription in the U.S., click  here . To purchase a print magazine subscription in Europe, the Middle East, Africa or Latin America, visit:  https://www.subscription.co.uk/fortune/europe/offers To purchase a print magazine subscription in Asia, visit: https://www.subscription.co.uk/fortune/asia/offers You can change or cancel your subscription at any time by visiting our online  Customer Service Portal  and entering your account number and zip code or via the methods below: U.S. & Canada Print Subscribers can call: 800-621-8000 Hours: Monday-Friday, 7AM-9:30PM CST, Saturday 8AM-6PM CST European/Middle East subscribers, please find the appropriate contact number at: https://www.subscribenow.com.au/fortune/europe/solo/ Asia/Pacific subscribers, please find the appropriate contact number at https://www.subscribenow.com.au/fortune/asia/solo    When a print subscription is canceled, your subscriber benefits will cease upon cancellation and a pro-rated refund will be paid for any remaining unserved issues. No. At this time, only “One Year with Magazine” annual subscribers in the U.S. and Canada qualify for delivery of the magazine via mail.  If you are in the U.S. or Canada, you must be subscribed to a “One Year with Magazine” Annual Fortune.com subscription in order to qualify to receive the print magazine. If you are currently on a monthly paywall subscription, you can upgrade your subscription through the  My Account  page. All you need to do is  sign into your account page  and navigate to the subscription tab, click the “Manage” drop down and select “Upgrade” to upgrade your subscription to a “One Year with Magazine” annual term. For all other subscribers located outside the US or Canada, you must have an “One Year with Magazine” annual Fortune.com subscription to qualify to receive the digital replica of the print magazine.  These  subscribers will receive a digital replica of Fortune Magazine delivered during February, April, June, August, October, and December, directly to your email’s in-box.  If you are currently a Monthly subscriber, you can upgrade your subscription through the   My Account  page. All you need to do is  sign into your account page  and navigate to the subscription tab, then upgrade your subscription to a “One Year with Magazine” annual term. If you are not a current subscriber, you can subscribe to Fortune’s print magazine (US or Canada) or digital replica (outside the US or Canada) by selecting the “One Year with Magazine” – either will populate based off your location.  You will then receive issues delivered in February, April, June, August, October, and December.   New U.S./Canada subscribers to the print magazine will receive their first printed issue 10-12 weeks after placing a subscription order. Please note that if your order was received by mail, the 10-12 weeks begins when the order was received.  If you have not received your first magazine within 12 weeks of your purchase date, please let us know and we’ll check on your subscription order. Contact us via the  Customer Service Portal  or call us at 1-800-621-8000.  Digital Magazines will be emailed within 3 days of our issue’s official publishing date. Please contact us via the  Customer Service Portal  or call us at 1-800-621-8000 for assistance. We can only replace recent copies that have not arrived due to a postal or printing error.   Please contact us via the  Customer Service Portal  or call us at 1-800-621-8000 for assistance. We can only replace recent copies that have not arrived due to a postal or printing error.   You can purchase singles print issues via the  Single Issues Purchase portal . We’d be happy to speak with you more about our corporate and enterprise group subscription packages. Please email  EnterpriseSales@fortune.com  and we will follow up with more details.  Yes. Digital subscriptions are available worldwide but must be purchased in US dollars. International digital subscriptions DO NOT include a print magazine.  You can add on a print subscription for your region via the following links:  Europe, Middle East, & Africa https://www.subscribenow.com.au/fortune/europe/offers Asia Pacific https://www.subscribenow.com.au/fortune/asia/offers Your subscription through the Apple News Plus App allows you to enjoy the current issue of Fortune Magazine as well as a few curated articles from Fortune.com. To access ALL stories from our website, including all our rankings, investment guides, videos, archives and more, you must subscribe to a Fortune.com paywall subscription (https://fortune.com/subscribe) separately via our website. Please note that you will not be able to receive all of Fortune’s additional content in the Apple News App. © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .