URL: https://fortune.com/ceoi
TITLE: CEOI
Meeting the moment to make business better Pressing societal issues need proactive voices to drive powerful solutions Fortune’s mission is to change the world by making business better. Fortune’s CEO Initiative (CEOI) brings this mission to life by convening an exclusive community of the world’s most influential and transformative leaders, who are driving positive societal change through their purpose-driven businesses. With the shared belief that business has a responsibility beyond profit, these leaders are actively shaping the zeitgeist by developing best practices on sustainability and social impact for their stakeholders and society—as well as addressing business’s role in geopolitics, the responsible deployment of A.I., public–private partnerships, and more.  Leveraging some 100 years of groundbreaking journalism, thought leadership, and convening power, the Fortune CEO Initiative is meeting the moment to  make business better . Exclusive benefits for CEO Initiative members CEO Initiative members receive unparalleled access to an elite community of business visionaries as well as Fortune editors and journalists. Benefits of membership include the following: Events In-person and virtual networking events and working groups—that set the agenda for purpose-driven business Exclusive Access Access to Fortune editors and platforms to highlight your mission, purpose, strategy, and thought leadership Member Portal Access to the CEOI member portal and complimentary invitations to Fortune global events The CEO Initiative is a global collective of visionary leaders who are driving positive societal change. “ A clear purpose is the ultimate unifier – giving people the courage and conviction to innovate and pursue the extraordinary, confident they’re working in a common direction with a shared purpose as their compass. “ Albert Bourla Chairman & CEO Pfizer Inc. “ As accelerating economic, geopolitical, and technology change becomes the norm, a clearly defined purpose serves as a constant that both grounds and guides us; ours is to deliver on the promise of technology and human ingenuity, and we build our strategy around living that every day. “ Julie Sweet Chairman & CEO Accenture “ At UPS, we move goods and do good. Our purpose taps into our desire to serve our customers, inspire our people, care for our communities, and live our values. “ Carol Tomé CEO UPS “As the challenges facing our world become more and more complex, leaders across every sector must operate with purpose and use their unique leadership and expertise to move the world forward—and for us that purpose starts with connection.” Hans Vestberg Chairman & CEO Verizon Communications Please send me information about CEO Initiative Membership First Name*  
		 Last Name*  
		 Work Email*  
		 Company*  
		 Title*  
		 Company Revenue*  —Please choose an option— 0-$99 million $100 million - $250 million $250 million - $500 million $500 million - $ 1 billion Over $1 billion 
		 Assistant First Name  
		 Assistant Last Name  
		 Assistant Email  
		 Assistant Phone Number  
		 
	 
 
	 Δ document.getElementById( "ak_js_1" ).setAttribute( "value", ( new Date() ).getTime() ); © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices . FORTUNE is a trademark, registered in the U.S. and other countries, and FORTUNE  CONNECT  is a trademark, of Fortune Media IP Limited.