URL: https://fortune.com/author/alyson-shontell/
TITLE: Articles by Alyson Shontell | Fortune
Alyson Shontell Alyson Shontell joined  Fortune  in October 2021 as editor-in-chief. She previously served as editor in chief of Business Insider. She joined Business Insider in 2008 as the company’s sixth employee, where she started as a sales planner before joining the editorial team in 2010. She became a startup reporter and was first to cover some of today’s largest tech companies, including Pinterest, Tinder, Instagram, Uber, and Snap. She rose to become a senior correspondent, then executive editor. She was appointed editor-in-chief in 2016 and became the youngest and only woman to run a global business publication. Under her leadership, the business division grew to hundreds of millions of monthly readers. Alyson was the host of Business Insider’s conferences and launched a podcast where she interviewed influencers about their career paths. She has appeared on the major media and has interviewed media personalities, technology leaders, politicos, and sports star LeBron James. She is a judge for the prestigious Gerald Loeb awards in business journalism and has been named one of Min’s Rising Stars in Media and Folio’s 2017 Top Women in Media. Alyson graduated from Syracuse University’s Newhouse School of Public Communications, where she majored in psychology and advertising. Follow all of Alyson's stories  here . © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .