URL: https://fortune.com/privacy-policy/
TITLE: U.S. Privacy Policy | Fortune
U.S. Privacy Policy California Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice 
For individuals who are residents of the State of California. European Economic Area Privacy Policy 
For individuals located in member countries of the European Economic Area, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. U.S. State  Privacy Supplement  
For individuals who are residents of the States of Colorado or Connecticut or the Commonwealth of Virginia. Canada Privacy Notice 
For individuals who live in Canada. This FORTUNE Privacy Policy is delivered on behalf of  Fortune Media  (USA) Corporation and our affiliates and governs the data collected on any website or mobile application on which a link to this Privacy Policy appears and any data we collect in connection with delivering the services to you, which may include providing you with online subscriptions and other product offerings, whether online or offline, (collectively, the “Services”). Your privacy is important to us. We provide this Privacy Policy to explain our practices for collecting, sharing and using the information you provide to us via our website or mobile applications and by using the Services, and to tell you about the choices you may be able to make regarding the ways in which your information is collected, used and shared. We collect information about you in various ways and from various sources. For example, you may provide personal information directly to us, we may receive personal information about you from someone else, we may collect certain information about you automatically through your use of the Services, or we may obtain information about you from third parties who are acting on our behalf. When you use the Services, you may, among other activities, order publications and products; subscribe to FORTUNE Newsletters; apply to attend or register for a FORTUNE conference; register to create an online account; subscribe for access to digital and other content; or post comments and other user-generated content. The information that you provide to us and that we collect or receive depends on your relationship with us and your interaction with the Services, but may include personal information such as your name, email address, year of birth, race or sexual orientation if you choose to provide it, address, job title, telephone number or fax number. In addition, you may be asked to provide us or one of our third party providers with payment information, such as your credit card or debit card number, where needed, such as when completing a purchase. We may also collect information about your personal or professional interests, your organization or industry and your use of, or opinions about, various products, programs and services. For instance, we may ask you to identify your job or industry to qualify you for free business magazines. Additional information regarding data collection and use related to FORTUNE conferences appears in the “ Information We Collect From Fortune Live Media Account Holders ” and “ Conference Applications ” sections below. Additional information regarding data collection and use related to FORTUNE Connect appears in the “ FORTUNE Connect ” section below. Through some features of the Services, certain promotions and on various portions of the websites and applications on which a link to this Privacy Policy appears, other people may be able to submit information about you to us. For example, someone might submit your name, mailing and/or email address or other information to send you a gift or nominate you as a speaker at a FORTUNE Conference. The types of personal information that people may submit about you at these pages may include your name, address, email address, telephone number, and professional information such as the organization you work at or your job title. We, our partners, advertisers, advertising networks or other third party service providers, as explained further in the “ Cookies and Other Online Tracking Technologies ” section below, may also automatically collect certain information when you visit our web pages, open our emails, use our applications, or otherwise use the Services. Such automatically collected information may include: This data may be combined and linked with data from other sources, including personal information. We may engage service providers to collect information about you on our behalf. For example, as described in the  “Fortune Analytics”  section below, we may engage third party service providers to collect publicly available information about certain individuals who work at companies that are included on various lists, such as the FORTUNE 500 list. We may also engage entities who assist us in identifying individuals whom we may invite to FORTUNE conferences. Depending on the length of time for which you have been a subscriber, we may have received information about you and your subscription history from entities with which the publication was previously affiliated. If you use certain third-party payment providers to purchase a subscription, we may receive information associated with your account (e.g., billing address) from that provider. We also receive information from you when you interact with our pages, groups, accounts or posts on social media and other third party platforms. This includes aggregate data on our followers, data regarding how you engage with our content (such as likes, comments, and shares) and publicly available profile information. If you choose to log in to the Services through a social media or other third-party account, we will collect your login credentials and any other information that you permit these social media or other third-party platforms to share with us. You should review and, if necessary, adjust your privacy settings on the social media and other third-party platforms before linking or connecting them to the Services.  We may use the information collected pursuant to this Privacy Policy in the following ways: We may share the information we collect about you or that you provide to us, including any personal information, as follows: In addition, please note that if Fortune Media (USA) Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries or lines of business is merged, acquired, divested, financed, sold, disposed of or dissolved, including through merger, consolidation, sale or divestiture of assets, the relevant customer database and any information collected pursuant to this Privacy Policy, including personal information we may possess about you, may, in whole or in part, be sold, disposed of, transferred, divested, or otherwise disclosed as part of that transaction or proceeding. Fortune Media (USA) Corporation may publish or offer for purchase data regarding companies or organizations that are selected to the FORTUNE 500, FORTUNE 1000, Global 500 and 100 Best Companies to Work For lists and other similar lists or rankings. If your company or organization is selected to be ranked on one of these lists, we may collect your name, business address, business contact details, additional information about your position in your company and information about your professional background and publish this together with the list or other publication. Such data is obtained solely from publicly available sources. When you register for the first time for one of our conferences we ask you to open a Fortune Live Media Account and to provide certain information, including your name, mailing address, email address, telephone number, the company you work for, and credit card or other payment information so that we can process and approve your registration and better assist you when you contact us in the future (e.g., regarding other conferences you wish to attend). We may also use your personal information to inform you about our services, upcoming conferences and marketing events. When you register for one of our conferences, we upload the data you provide to us during the Fortune Live Media Account registration process, and other information that you may provide to us in connection with your attendance at one of our conferences, into our mobile application for that conference. When you download and log in to use the app, you must provide your name and create a password and you may voluntarily provide certain additional data to us and other authorized users of the app, including your photo and bio. You may also choose to import data into the app from a social media profile, such as from your  LinkedIn  profile. The app enables you to network and interact with other conference attendees by, for example, sharing your agenda and profile with those attendees and enabling in-app messaging. The default privacy setting in the app makes your profile, agenda and other information visible to other authorized users of the app, including other attendees. You may adjust your privacy settings in the app to the extent you wish to make your profile “Invisible” or “Public.” You may also visit the “Notifications” center in the app to adjust when you receive push notifications. We assign a unique user ID to your app on your device so that we can identify you when you use the app and collect user metrics such as how you use the app. We use the information we collect to operate and constantly improve our apps, to provide our services to you and other users and for promotional purposes. The information in this section on FORTUNE Connect is specific to the FORTUNE Connect platform and supplements the other information contained in the remainder of this Privacy Policy. It should be read together with the rest of the Privacy Policy. Information We Collect When You Apply for a FORTUNE Connect Account  We collect information directly from you when you apply to become a FORTUNE Connect member (also referred to as a “Fellow”) or first register with FORTUNE Connect, such as your name, title, organization, contact information, and payment information. We may employ technologies to automatically collect information that you input into the FORTUNE Connect application form in real-time, whether or not you submit the application. We may use that information as outlined in the “ How We Use the Information ” section above, including to contact you, in an effort to better understand your interests, analyze usage patterns on our websites and let you know about products and services you may be interested in. If you apply to join FORTUNE Connect and are not approved to be a FORTUNE Connect member, we will retain certain information that you have provided. We will use such information for recordkeeping purposes so that we know you have applied to be a member, and for our marketing purposes so that we can contact you about other Fortune content in which you may be interested. Information Collection for Accounts Made Available by Enterprise Contractors If your account is made available by your employer or another third party (“Enterprise Contractor”), we will receive certain account registration details about you, such as your name and contact information, from the Enterprise Contractor who makes your FORTUNE Connect account available to you. We may share certain information and account details with the Enterprise Contractor that sponsors your account, which may include information regarding your interaction with your FORTUNE Connect account, the frequency with which you use it, and/or aggregated or anonymized data about your use of FORTUNE Connect. Information We Collect When You Activate and Use Your FORTUNE Connect Account Once you activate your FORTUNE Connect account, you can choose to add information to your Fortune Connect profile (“Profile”). For example, you may add a profile photo or provide information about your education background. The platform will also detect the location associated with your IP address or device ID and you can confirm whether or not to include that location, or another location, in your Profile. Certain Profile entries are mandatory, such as your name. You can choose to not populate optional Profile fields or delete the information you have included in those fields if you want to limit the Profile entries that are shown to other FORTUNE Connect members. In addition, we collect the “online status” and time each FORTUNE Connect user was “last active” on the platform. If your account expires, is revoked or otherwise becomes inactive, certain of your content, including comments and activity on the platform that are attributable to you, may remain visible to other FORTUNE Connect members. Badges/Certificates You may be eligible to receive a badge or certificate in connection with certain activities on FORTUNE Connect, such as when you complete a learning sprint. We rely on a third-party provider to issue and maintain badges/certificates and the privacy policy and terms of that third-party provider apply. The third-party provider will let us know the name and contact details of any FORTUNE Connect member who has activated a badge/certificate. Sharing Throughout the FORTUNE Connect Community FORTUNE Connect is designed to provide an interactive experience and facilitate participation in the FORTUNE Connect community.  As a result, we share information you have provided about yourself and information about your registration for, attendance at and/or interaction with events, content and offerings with all other FORTUNE Connect members. For example, if you RSVP to an event, “cheer” content, or comment on a post, all other FORTUNE Connect members can see it. Your “online status” and the date and time you were “last active” on the FORTUNE Connect platform is also available to all other Fortune Connect members. All information you have included in your Profile is viewable by other FORTUNE Connect members. These features are key elements of the interactive nature of the FORTUNE Connect platform and required to use FORTUNE Connect. We sometimes may offer conferences, contests, sweepstakes, promotions, editorial features, or other activities or offerings that are sponsored, co-branded or co-sponsored by or presented with identified third parties. If you, or your company or organization, choose to participate in such activities or offerings, your IP address and the personal information that you voluntarily submit or that other people submit about you may be provided to Fortune Media (USA) Corporation, our affiliates and such third parties. Fortune Media (USA) Corporation has no control over such third parties’ use of your information. Our websites and mobile applications on which a link to this Privacy Policy appears, and some of the Services, contain links to third party sites and services whose privacy practices may be different than ours. We also allow you to connect with other third party sites and services. We are not responsible for the privacy practices of third party sites and services and you should consult the other third party sites’ and services’ privacy notices in order to better understand their privacy practices. Email Marketing . If you prefer not to receive email marketing from us or our affiliates, you may opt out of receiving commercial email messages from us by clicking on the “unsubscribe” link that is contained in those email messages. Telephone Marketing . Please email us at  privacy@fortune.com  if you do not wish to receive telephone calls from us. Targeted Advertising . Please see our  AdChoices  page and “ Choices Related to Online Tracking and Advertising ” below for information about how to disable cookies and other choices that may be available to you regarding targeted advertising. We take reasonable steps to accurately record the personal information that you provide to us pursuant to this Privacy Policy and any subsequent updates to such information. We encourage you to review, update, and correct the personal information that you provide to us pursuant to this Privacy Policy. You may request that we delete such personal information about you that is inaccurate, or incomplete, by contacting us as set out in the “ How to Contact Us ” section below. At our election, instead of deleting such information, we may retain it with your comment or correction noted in our records. By contacting us, you may also object to our further use of your personal information if you have compelling legitimate grounds (this may involve closing your account). We may ask you to verify your identity and to provide other details before we are able to provide you with any information, correct any inaccuracies, or delete any information. Your right to review, update, correct, and delete your personal information may be limited, subject to the law or your jurisdiction: (i) if your requests are abusive or unreasonably excessive, (ii) where the rights or safety of another person or persons would be encroached upon, or (iii) if the information or material you request relates to existing or anticipated legal proceedings between you and us, or providing access to you would prejudice negotiations between us or an investigation of possible unlawful activity. Your right to review, update, correct and delete your information is subject to our records retention policies and applicable law, including any statutory retention requirements. To make such a request, please contact us at  privacy@fortune.com. We will retain your personal information while you have an account with us and thereafter for purposes not prohibited by applicable laws, including in line with our data retention and routine business practices. We will then either delete your personal information or de-identify it so that it is anonymous and not attributed to your identity. We have put in place appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to help prevent unauthorized access, maintain data security and correctly use the information we collect from and about you. However, no system can be completely secure and we do not guarantee that unauthorized disclosures and access will not happen. Although we take appropriate measures to safeguard against unauthorized disclosures of information, we cannot assure you that your personal information or other information will never be disclosed in a manner that is inconsistent with this Privacy Policy. We and service providers or partners we engage to provide content, advertising, functionality and other services or that measure and analyze ad performance or user behavior on the Services, may use cookies, web beacons and other similar technologies to understand usage of the Services and improve our content and offerings and to deliver advertisements in which you might be interested. These technologies collect statistical and other information, including personal information, about you and your use of the Services. Some of the tracking technologies we and our service providers or partners may use include: Cookies . Cookies are small text files that may be placed by us or our service providers and partners on your computer or device when you visit our websites or applications. A cookie assigns a unique numerical identifier to your web browser or device, and may enable us or third parties to recognize you as the same user who has used the Services, and relate your use of the Services to other information about you, such as your usage information and personal information. We may use cookies in a variety of ways. For example, we may use cookies to: Local Shared Objects . Local shared objects, such as “Flash cookies” also may be stored on your computer or device. Local shared objects operate a lot like cookies because they are stored on your device and can be used to store certain information about your activities and preferences; however, they cannot be managed in the same way as cookies. Depending on how local shared objects are enabled on your computer or device, you may be able to manage them using software settings. HTML 5 . HTML5, the language some websites are coded in, may be used to store information on your computer or device about how you use the Services. This information may be retrieved by us to help us manage the Services, and may give us information about how the Services are being used by our visitors, how they can be improved, and how we can customize the Services for users. Cache Cookies . Cache cookies, such as eTags, may be used to identify your computer or device as the same computer or device that visited a Service or Services in the past. Web Beacons . A web beacon is an electronic image called a single-pixel or “clear gif” that is a small piece of code that is used to collect anonymous and aggregate advertising metrics, such as the counting of page views, promotion views, or advertising responses. Web beacons can recognize certain types of information, such as a user’s cookie number, time and date of a page view, and description of the page where the web beacon is placed. These web beacons may be used to deliver cookies that conform to our cookie policy above. Mobile Device IDs and Location-Based Information . Certain mobile devices, including smart phones and tablet devices, contain unique device IDs that can be used to identify their physical location. Some mobile device IDs are permanent, while others may be changed by accessing the device’s privacy settings. Mobile devices also typically transmit caller ID data (which may include a phone number) when used to transmit a telephone call or text message. When you use mobile devices to access our Services, we may collect and transmit unique device IDs and collect caller ID data, as well as other information about your device, including without limitation, your wireless carrier, the make, model, operating system, capacity and settings of your device, the names, package IDs and versions of other software you have downloaded to your device and information about how you interact with and navigate within our Service. These tracking technologies may be deployed by us and/or our by our service providers, partners on our behalf. These technologies enable us to assign a unique number to you, and may allow us to relate your use of the relevant Services to other information about you, including your usage information and personal information. We may match information collected from you through different means or at different times and combine such information with information obtained from other sources (including third parties), such as demographic information and updated contact information (where that information has been lawfully disclosed to us), for the purposes of learning more about you so we can provide you with relevant content. When you use the Services, FORTUNE, its service providers or third parties, such as ad technology, ad servers, ad networks or any other nonaffiliated third parties, may place cookies on your computer or use other online tracking technologies to collect or receive certain information about you and/or your use of the Services. Such information may include information about your visits to, and activity on, this website or application and other websites or applications, the number of times you have viewed an advertisement and other information. The information may be used to provide content, advertising, or functionality or to measure and analyze ad performance on the Services or other websites or platforms. For example, we may use third parties to present or serve advertisements, including targeted advertisements, that you may see on the Services. Third parties may also conduct research about the advertisements, or the Services themselves, and may place and use tracking mechanisms (e.g., tracking pixels) in the emails we may send to you. This information may be combined with information collected across different websites, online services, and other linked or associated devices. This Privacy Policy does not cover any use of information that such third parties may have collected from you for their own purposes or the methods used by the third parties to collect that information. Most browsers automatically accept cookies. You can set your browser options so that you will not receive cookies and you can also delete existing cookies from your browser. However, you may find that some parts of the site will not function properly if you have refused cookies or similar tracking technologies and you should be aware that disabling cookies or similar tracking technologies might prevent you from accessing some of our content. Also, you may still receive advertisements even if you opt-out of targeted advertising. In that case, the ads will not be tailored to your perceived interests. For more information on advertisements and your targeted advertising options, visit our  AdChoices  page. If you are a Nevada resident, you can opt-out of sales of certain covered information that a website operator has collected or will collect about you. To submit an opt-out request, please email us at privacy@fortune.com and specify that you are a Nevada resident. You can manage your cookie preferences by clicking the “Cookie Preferences” button at the bottom of our homepage, www.fortune.com. The Services are not intended for use by children, especially those under the age of 16, and we do not knowingly collect personal information from children under the age of 16. If you are a parent or guardian and believe we have collected information from your child, please contact us as set out under “ How to Contact Us ” below. Any information we obtain about you in connection with your use of the Services may be processed and stored in the United States or other countries. This Privacy Policy may be changed by Fortune Media (USA) Corporation or its affiliates at any time and such changes will apply to information we collected from you pursuant to a previous privacy policy. The revised Privacy Policy will be posted on the appropriate portion(s) of our websites or mobile applications and will indicate at the bottom when it was most recently updated. We encourage you to periodically check back to review this policy so that you know what information we collect, how we use it and with whom we share it. If you have any questions or concerns about this Privacy Policy or its implementation please contact us via email at  privacy@fortune.com  or by writing to: back to top This Privacy Policy was last updated on June 29, 2023. © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .