URL: https://fortune.com/2023/12/03/sports-ceos-lessons-pitch-to-boardroom/
TITLE: Nine successful CEOs on how sports helped them succeed | Fortune
These nine successful CEOs were high school sports stars: Here are the lessons they’ve taken from the pitch to the boardroom It’s an age-old cliche that jocks peak in high school. Perhaps it’s a perception they’re more focused on sports than studies, or maybe it’s a hint of jealousy. But it turns out that dedicating yourself to a sport can get you ahead in life: to the tune of $220,000 more across the course of your career, according to  an extensive study of US Ivy League alumni . That’s because the very same skills that are valued on the pitch are also highly desirable in the c-suite. Playing sports growing up teaches leaders discipline, accountability and teamwork. At least, that’s according to the executives that  Fortune  spoke to.  Just look at some of America’s top chief executives and you’ll soon take stock of how many played some form of sports growing up. In 2011,  Fortune  even rounded up the Fortune 500 CEOs who were most successful on the playing field, with Samuel J. Palmisano, IBM’s former CEO; Walter E. Robb, Whole Foods former CEO; and Boeing’s ex-chief James McNerney all making the impressive list. Meanwhile, the billionaire entrepreneur and Shark Tank star, Mark Cuban—who is  reportedly selling his majority stake in the Dallas Mavericks —has received some his best business advice from his NBA players. “Let me just tell you, I learned more from Dennis Rodman about PR and marketing than I learned in any MBA class,” he admitted on the  All The Smoke  podcast. Here’s how nine other high-profile leaders have been shaped by the sport they mastered. Focus on what’s ahead, rather than behind Who?  Stephanie Linnartz, CEO of Under Armour Sport of choice?  Running “Sports can empower all of us to achieve excellence in every aspect of our lives. We are all athletes, pursuing our own greatness in everything that we do. Personally, I’ve always been an avid runner as the sport has kept me grounded throughout my life and focused on what’s up ahead, rather than behind.  “I’ve adapted this simple lesson of focusing on the now not just into my professional life, but also into my  Under Armour  teammate’s mindsets as we constantly look to focus on how we can succeed in the long-term rather than focusing on the short-term. As we’ve heard, it’s a marathon, not a sprint.”  Commit to your personal growth Who?  Job van der Voort, CEO of HR unicorn, Remote Sport of choice?  Cycling  “It’s more than just physical exercise; cycling was a crucible forging my independence, autonomy, and self-reliance. I was my own team, the only one I could rely on to get on the bike, to keep pedaling, rain or shine. This daily commitment to myself and my personal growth shaped me into the CEO I am today.  “Just like in solo sports, in the boardroom I trust my instincts, make swift decisions, and hold myself accountable for the outcomes. The most profound lesson I’ve learned: if you seek consensus with all your decisions, you will very slowly land in mediocrity.” You don’t have to be the best Who?  Lara Abrash, Chair,  Deloitte  US Sport of choice?  Softball  “One lesson I still carry with me (on and off the field) is you don’t have to be the best, fastest, or smartest person in the room to become a leader or to achieve success. Good leaders often find success in assembling the right team, developing a vision and strategy, aligning and empowering team members, and executing together to reach a shared goal.  “Sports have been invaluable in shaping my business philosophy, and I’m a fierce advocate for those playing to win in any arena.” Play to win Who?  Artie Minson, CEO of LeafLink and former President of WeWork Sports of choice ? Cross country and basketball “I was the co-captain of my high school cross country team where I learned the importance of running as a team and that the amount of hard work and effort you put in on the practice runs when no one is watching is what determines the outcome at the race. I also played basketball in high school and learned the importance of playing to win. If you just play offense or just play defense you will lose, it’s the teams that play both offense and defense well that win. The importance of rebounding from failure Who?  Dr. Sian Beilock, president of Ivy League college, Dartmouth Sports of choice?  Soccer and lacrosse “My biggest lesson from my days as an athlete came from my biggest disappointment. As a teenager, I was a promising goalie playing in the Olympic development program, with big dreams to join the national team. With the national coach watching, I played the worst game of my career.  “I’ve seen how easy it can be to perform worse than expected “or choke” when it matters most—from important presentations to crucial team meetings—and learned that one key is knowing how to bounce back.” Be your team’s motivator Who?  Bill Hinshaw, president and CEO, Karuna Therapeutics, one of the fastest growing biotech companies in the United States Sport of choice?  Baseball  “Leadership is about motivating and inspiring people—just like on a sports team. When employees are tired, the CEO must be energizing. When the employees are negative, the CEO must be positive. When employees are pessimistic, the CEO must be optimistic.  “And finally, when employees are stressed, the CEO must be calm. It’s no different than leading a sports team as a coach or player.” Being a unifier will never get old Who?  Jon Cook, global CEO of the world’s largest ad agency VML Sport of choice ? Football, basketball and baseball “As a kid, I gravitated to team sports and there’s so much even today that I draw from those experiences. That high you get when you win alongside others—whether they’re your teammates or your colleagues—is truly out of this world. “The way I see it, the importance of bringing a team together and being a unifier will never get old. Being an effective leader is about working together to achieve. Winning will always be fun, of course, but it’s about making sure everyone succeeds collectively, playing to their individual strengths while motivating and trusting each other implicitly.” We before me Who?  CEO Wayne Berson of BDO USA, one of the world’s largest accounting and professional service firms Sport of choice?  Rugby “Unlike American football a key element of rugby is that there is no forward passing. To advance, the team must hand the ball off to each other many times. No single standout player can carry the whole team. Instead, everyone must carry their weight; You quickly learn the importance of ‘we before me’ and the need for a roster that features each vital skill.  “I approach business the same way. I look for a collection of peers with diverse skills that complement each other—and, importantly, people who understand the value of unity.” Have the confidence to pull back Who?  Mark Anderson, CEO of NYSE-listed tech company, Alteryx Sport of choice?  Hockey “Playing hockey helped shape my life and my face—my nose was broken seven times. Apart from teaching me to keep my head up, it taught me that trust and confidence in the players around you and understanding that each one will play a critical role in seeing the play through is crucial. This is especially important for the plays outside of your own comfort zone.  “Whether through delegation or automation, have the confidence to pull back and create space for others to participate and manage situations so the company can make that goal.” © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .