URL: https://fortune.com/2023/12/03/coreweave-fidelity-investment-cloud-provider-ai-startup/
TITLE: CoreWeave backed by Fidelity, Jane Street at $7B valuation | Fortune
CoreWeave backed by Fidelity and Jane Street at $7 billion valuation as cloud provider bolsters status as one of AI’s hottest startups CoreWeave , a cloud computing provider that’s among the hottest startups in the artificial intelligence race, said it closed a minority stake sale to investors led by Fidelity Management & Research Co. Investment Management Corp. of Ontario, Jane Street, JPMorgan Asset Management, Nat Friedman, Daniel Gross, Goanna Capital and  Zoom  Ventures also participated in the deal, CoreWeave said, confirming an  earlier  Bloomberg News report. The transaction values the company at $7 billion, said people with knowledge of the matter, asking not to be identified discussing confidential information. “Our explosive growth trajectory has been recognized by top-tier institutional investors, and this transaction highlights the differentiation our market-leading performance, significant technology advantage, and strong customer adoption is receiving in the market,” Michael Intrator, co-founder and CEO of CoreWeave, said in an emailed statement. The AI industry is at an inflection point, he added, noting that the company is playing a central role by providing “the most differentiated” AI infrastructure to customers. The Roseland, New Jersey-based company earlier this year  said  it secured a $2.3 billion debt financing facility led by Magnetar Capital and  Blackstone  that also featured Coatue, DigitalBridge Credit, and affiliates of  BlackRock , PIMCO, and Carlyle. CoreWeave, which counts  Nvidia  Corp. as an investor, was an early adopter of Nvidia’s graphics chips for data centers, getting ahead of a wave of demand for powerful processors to run artificial intelligence applications. It’s building out data centers based on Nvidia’s chips to offer AI-related computing. Morgan Stanley  advised CoreWeave on its minority stake sale. © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .