URL: https://fortune.com/europe/2023/12/01/zoogler-zurich-new-york-most-expensive-city-in-the-world/
TITLE: Bad news, Zooglers—Zurich is now the world’s most expensive city | Fortune Europe
‘Zoogler’-packed Zurich just overtook New York as the most expensive city in the world The life of a typical New Yorker is defined by expensive food, exorbitant rent, and myriad other daily costs. But citizens of the sprawling metropolis can now take solace in the fact that it could be worse. Zurich passed New York to become one of the two most expensive cities to live in this year, according to the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), as the Swiss franc weakened and inflation pushed up the prices of groceries, household goods, and recreation. The Swiss financial hub tied with Singapore as the world’s most expensive city in 2023 in the EIU’s annual  Cost of Living survey , taking over New York’s  pole position last year . The study looked at the prices of hundreds of goods and services across 173 major cities.  The world’s biggest cities were defined by soaring inflation for a second year in a row as prices rose on average by 7.4%. It marked a slight decline from the record 8.1% rate from 2022. That inflation was more pronounced in Europe, as eurozone CPI pushed past 10% last year and increased the strain on cities in the continent compared with the U.S. and Asia. A weaker dollar in 2023 has also made cities in the States more affordable to live in, helping the cost of living in New York rise by just 1.9% this year. According to the EIU, Europe is now home to four of the world’s 10 most expensive cities, with Geneva, Paris, and Copenhagen joining Zurich near the top of the list. While utility prices fell markedly from 2022 following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the EIU said grocery prices remained elevated globally as retailers managed to pass on higher costs to consumers and increasingly unpredictable weather events kept suppliers guessing. The rising cost of rent in major cities has pushed people further from work, and with a 10.7% rise in the cost of transport this year, that has also increased living costs in many places. But as inflation begins to fall closer to its 2% target in most major economies, there is hope that 2024 will see an ease to the eye-watering price increases experienced over the past couple of years. “We expect inflation to continue to decelerate in 2024, as the lagged impact of interest-rate rises starts affecting economic activity, and in turn, consumer demand,” said Upasana Datt, head of worldwide cost of living at the EIU.  “But upside risks remain—further escalations of the Israel-Hamas war would drive up energy prices, while a greater than expected impact from El Niño would push up food prices even further.” Zooglers feeling the heat Rising prices will be a pinch for Zurich’s thousands of  Google employees , who have previously been blamed for driving up house prices in the city. Buyers in Zurich face house prices exceeding 1,468 Swiss francs (around $1,617) per square foot, much higher than the €1,000 (around $1,060) rate in Paris and around €790 ($861) in London. The city is home to 5,000 so-called Zooglers, whose exorbitant salaries are seen as part of the cause for unaffordable housing in Zurich and its surrounding areas. © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .