URL: https://fortune.com/2023/12/03/kiss-band-to-live-on-with-digital-avatars-rock-music-entertainment/
TITLE: Kiss to live on via digital avatars: ‘We can be forever young’ | Fortune
Kiss to live on via digital avatars, with help from George Lucas’ Industrial Light & Magic: ‘We can be forever young and forever iconic’ On Saturday night, Kiss closed out the final performance of their “The End of the Road”  farewell tour  at New York City’s famed Madison Square Garden. But as dedicated fans surely know — they were never going to call it quits. Not really. During their encore, the band’s current lineup — founders Paul Stanley and Gene Simmons as well as guitarist Tommy Thayer and drummer Eric Singer — left the stage to reveal digital avatars of themselves. After the transformation, the virtual Kiss launched into a performance of “God Gave Rock and Roll to You.” The cutting-edge technology was used to tease a new chapter of the rock band:  after 50 years of Kiss , the band is now interested in a kind of digital immortality. The avatars were created by George Lucas’ special-effects company, Industrial Light & Magic, in partnership with Pophouse Entertainment Group, the latter of which was co-founded by ABBA’s Björn Ulvaeus. The two companies recently teamed up for  the “ABBA Voyage” show  in London, in which fans could attend a full concert by the Swedish band — as performed by their digital avatars. Per Sundin, CEO of Pophouse Entertainment, says this new technology allows Kiss to continue their legacy for “eternity.” He says the band wasn’t on stage during virtual performance because “that’s the key thing,” of the future-seeking technology. “Kiss could have a concert in three cities in the same night across three different continents. That’s what you could do with this.” ‘The band deserves to live on’ In order to create their digital avatars, who are depicted as a kind of superhero version of the band, Kiss performed in motion capture suits. Experimentation with this kind of technology has become increasingly common in certain sections of the music industry. In October  K-pop star Mark Tuan  partnered with Soul Machines to create an autonomously automated “digital twin” called “Digital Mark.” In doing so, Tuan became the first celebrity to attach their likeness to  OpenAI’s GPT integration,  artificial intelligence technology that allows fans to engage in one-on-one conversations with Tuan’s avatar. Aespa, the K-pop girl group, frequently perform alongside their digital avatars — the quartet is meant to be viewed as an octet with digital twins. Another girl group, Eternity, is made up entirely of virtual characters — no humans necessary. “What we’ve accomplished has been amazing, but it’s not enough. The band deserves to live on because the band is bigger than we are,” Kiss frontman Paul Stanley said  in a roundtable interview.  “It’s exciting for us to go the next step and see Kiss immortalized.” “We can be forever young and forever iconic by taking us to places we’ve never dreamed of before,” Kiss bassist Gene Simmons added. “The technology is going to make Paul jump higher than he’s ever done before.” And for those who couldn’t make the Madison Square Garden show — stay tuned, because a Kiss avatar concert may very well be on the way.` © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .