URL: https://fortune.com/recommends/credit-cards/best-business-credit-cards/
TITLE: 10 Best Business Credit Cards of November 2023 | Fortune Recommends
10 best business credit cards of November 2023 Whether you’re a start-up co-founder or a mom-and-pop store owner, you might benefit from having a business credit card. Business credit cards offer specific perks and advantages that are beneficial to small business owners. Unlike personal  credit cards , business credit cards enable you to separate your personal and business expenses, access larger lines of credit, and earn rewards in business-related spending categories.  To determine the best business cards, we analyzed more than 40 cards and evaluated them based on factors like the annual fee, the rewards rate, the  annual percentage rate (APR) , the perks, and the insurance and protections.  See our full methodology here. The 10 best business credit cards The best business credit cards of November 2023 Note:  Rates, fees, and account requirements are up to date as of October 23, 2023, but are subject to change. .table-container table, td, th {border: 1px solid #111111;}.table-container table {max-width: 600px;margin: auto;width: 100%;margin-bottom: 24px;font-family: 'Graphik Condensed', Arial Narrow, Helvetica neue Condensed, sans-serif;border-collapse: collapse;}.table-container table th {padding: 16px;background-color: #00CD98;font-size: 24px;font-weight: 600;line-height: 28.8px;}.table-container table tbody tr {background-color: #FFFFFF;}.table-container table tbody tr:first-child td {font-size: 16px;font-weight: 600;line-height: 19.2px;padding: 8px 16px;}.table-container table tbody tr td {padding: 16px;}.table-container table tbody tr td a {color: #007B9D;text-decoration: none;}.table-container table tbody tr td a:hover {color: #666666;}.table-container tr:first-of-type {background-color: #33CC99 !important;} .table-container table, td, th {border: 1px solid #111111;}.table-container table {max-width: 600px;margin: auto;width: 100%;margin-bottom: 24px;font-family: 'Graphik Condensed', Arial Narrow, Helvetica neue Condensed, sans-serif;border-collapse: collapse;}.table-container table th {padding: 16px;background-color: #00CD98;font-size: 24px;font-weight: 600;line-height: 28.8px;}.table-container table tbody tr {background-color: #FFFFFF;}.table-container table tbody tr:first-child td {font-size: 16px;font-weight: 600;line-height: 19.2px;padding: 8px 16px;}.table-container table tbody tr td {padding: 16px;}.table-container table tbody tr td a {color: #007B9D;text-decoration: none;}.table-container table tbody tr td a:hover {color: #666666;}.table-container tr:first-of-type {background-color: #33CC99 !important;} The U.S Business Platinum Visa Card made our list because it had the longest 0% APR period on purchases and balance transfers.  The U.S. Business Platinum is a simple, no-annual-fee card with a 0% intro APR on purchases and balance transfers for the first 18 billing cycles. It’s a solid option if you plan to finance a large purchase or consolidate your credit card debt. However, this card is not suitable for everyone. If you want to earn a ton of rewards or score a generous welcome bonus, the card doesn’t offer any rewards or a welcome bonus.  The Bank of America® Premium Rewards® Elite stood out from the pack of luxury business credit cards because of its many travel-related perks and benefits.  Cardholders can earn a large welcome bonus, receive multiple types of travel protections and insurances, access to airport lounges, and get annual statement credits valued at more than $450.  Though the card offers modest rewards rates, you get your money’s worth with this $550 annual fee card. Every year, you’ll get a $300 automatic statement credit to cover qualifying airline incidental purchases and a $150 credit for qualifying lifestyle convenience purchases.  Plus, if you’re an avid traveler, this card has no foreign transaction fees and offers a lot of useful perks—you’ll get a $100 statement credit every four years to cover TSA PreCheck and Global Entry fees and a complimentary Priority Select Membership, so you can access over 1,300 airport lounges worldwide.  And if anything goes awry when traveling, you can have peace of mind knowing there’s trip delay reimbursement, trip cancellation insurance, auto rental collision damage waiver, and more with the Premium Rewards Elite card. .table-container table, td, th {border: 1px solid #111111;}.table-container table {max-width: 600px;margin: auto;width: 100%;margin-bottom: 24px;font-family: 'Graphik Condensed', Arial Narrow, Helvetica neue Condensed, sans-serif;border-collapse: collapse;}.table-container table th {padding: 16px;background-color: #00CD98;font-size: 24px;font-weight: 600;line-height: 28.8px;}.table-container table tbody tr {background-color: #FFFFFF;}.table-container table tbody tr:first-child td {font-size: 16px;font-weight: 600;line-height: 19.2px;padding: 8px 16px;}.table-container table tbody tr td {padding: 16px;}.table-container table tbody tr td a {color: #007B9D;text-decoration: none;}.table-container table tbody tr td a:hover {color: #666666;}.table-container tr:first-of-type {background-color: #33CC99 !important;} To view rates and fees of the American Express Blue Business Cash™ Card, see  this page . Of the business credit cards we ranked, the  American Express Blue Business Cash™ Card  had the highest flat cash-back rate: Cardholders earn 2% cash back on all eligible purchases on up to $50,000 per calendar year (then 1%). This means you can earn $1,000 cash back annually by spending up to the $50,000 cap. Plus, the card has a $0 annual fee, so you won’t have to pay to get these stellar cash back rates. You can even earn a welcome bonus with the Blue Business Cash. Though there were flat cash-back cards that offered larger welcome offers, you can still earn a $250 statement credit after you make $3,000 in purchases on your card in your first 3 months. And if you’re the type of cardholder who wants a low-effort cash back card, the Blue Business Cash makes it easy for cardholders to redeem their points. You don’t have to figure out redemption values or find the most lucrative transfer partner because your rewards are automatically credited to your account as a statement credit. Learn More > The  Chase Ink Business Cash® Credit Card  knocks it out of the park when it comes to the welcome bonus. Of the cash back business cards we analyzed, Ink Business Cash had one of the highest cash back rewards to spending requirement ratios.  In other words, you can score a generous bonus without spending a lot. Cardholders earn $900 bonus cash back after you spend $6,000 on purchases in the first 3 months from account opening.  While this card offers minimal perks and charges a foreign transaction fee, it’s still a sound $0 annual fee card with lucrative rewards and a lavish welcome bonus.  Plus, since  Chase Ink Business Cash  cardholders earn Chase points, there are multiple redemption options, from using points to book flights through the Chase Ultimate Rewards portal or to get a statement credit. Why we like this card  If you’re a new business owner, your priority is probably affordability and not rewards. You may be looking for a credit card that’s low cost with minimal fees, low APRs, and a 0% intro APR on new purchases or balance transfers.  Based on these factors, the Bank of America® Business Advantage Travel Rewards World Mastercard® credit card might be your best bet. The card has a $0 annual fee, no foreign transaction fees, and a decent rewards rate and welcome bonus.  The reward structure is easy to understand, so you don’t have to worry about keeping track of different rewards categories: Cardholders earn unlimited 1.5 points back on eligible purchases.  And when you sign up for the card, you can earn 30,000 online bonus points after you make at least $3,000 in purchases in the first 90 days of account opening. However, you are restricted in how you redeem that bonus. You can only redeem the offer for a $300 statement credit covering travel and dining costs. Lastly, if you want a credit card to cover pricy upfront costs for your new business, the Business Advantage Travel Rewards has a 0% intro APR for the first 9 billing cycles following the opening of your account. After that, a 18.49%–28.49% variable APR.  Of course, set a reminder for when your 0% APR period ends, so you can pay off the balance you incurred during it. Otherwise, you may have to pay a hefty amount of interest. While the Capital One Spark 1.5X Miles Select Business Credit Card didn’t have the highest rewards rate of the cards we analyzed, this card edged out competitors because of its $0 annual fee, lack of foreign transaction fees, and large sign-up bonus.  With the Capital One Spark 1.5X Miles Select, cardholders can earn 50,000 miles once they spend $4,500 on purchases within the first three months from account opening.  And even though you’re not getting an exorbitant rewards rate, you’ll still get a reasonable 1.5X miles on all eligible purchases. Cardholders also shouldn’t underestimate the flexibility you get with Capital One Points. You can transfer your miles to a travel partner, book flights or hotel stays through Capital One, get a statement credit, and even cover past travel purchases.  Learn More > For only $95 a year, the  Chase Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card  offers a plethora of travel-related benefits on top of a hefty welcome bonus and a solid rewards rate.  When you sign up for the  Chase Ink Business Preferred card , you can earn 100,000 points after spending $8,000 in the first three months of card opening. If you redeem rewards for cash back, you’ll get $1,000, but if you redeem for travel through Chase Ultimate Rewards, your points are worth a whopping $1,250 because points are worth 25% more when booked through Chase Ultimate rewards. Of course, you’ll also be able to earn extra rewards on your essential business spending as cardholders earn 3x points per $1 (up to $150,000 combined) spent on shipping purchases, internet, cable, phone, and advertising with social media sites and search engines. This could be helpful for cardholders who frequently spend money in those categories. Plus, you get 1x point per $1 spent on all other purchases. And rest assured if a trip is canceled because of bad weather or there’s damage to your rental car, you could be eligible for reimbursement. You’ll receive an auto rental collision damage waiver, trip cancellation or interruption insurance, cell phone protection, and more.  Want a budget-friendly business credit card that earns you a ton of points and has travel perks typically reserved for luxury cards? Look no further than the U.S. Bank Business Altitude Connect World Elite Mastercard, a $95 annual fee card (a $0 introductory annual fee for the first 12 months) with no foreign transaction fees.  With the U.S. Bank Business Altitude Connect World Elite, you can earn a high rewards rate on your food and travel-related spending, making it a good option for small business owners who eat out frequently and travel a lot. Plus, the travel benefits don’t stop there. When you fly, you’ll get lounge access with the Priority Pass Digital annual membership, and if something goes awry when traveling, you’ll have lost luggage insurance if your bag goes missing.  Learn more about IHG One Rewards Premier Business Credit Card  here . With an affordable $99 annual fee,  IHG One Rewards Premier Business Credit Card  cardholders get a host of useful perks they can use to subsidize their stays at IHG hotels. Cardholders automatically receive Platinum Elite status, so cardholders can earn bonus points on their stay and check-in early, among other benefits.  IHG Hotels has locations across the country, so whether you’re staying at a Holiday Inn or Kimpton Hotel, you can earn extra rewards on your stay: Cardholders can earn up to 26 total points per $1 spent when you stay at IHG Hotels and Resorts. Of course, you’ll get more than just a high rewards rate with this card, they also get free hotel stays. Every account anniversary, cardholders receive a free night worth up to 40,000 points (if the stay is worth more than 40,000 points, you can use your points to cover the cost). Plus, if you book a four-night IHG hotel stay, you can get the fourth night free. And the benefits of the card aren’t just IHG-specific. Cardholders can score travel-related protections and perks: You get a statement credit for Global Entry or TSA PreCheck® Nexus, trip cancellation, and interruption insurance. To view rates and fees of the Delta SkyMiles® Platinum Business American Express Card, see  this page . Though Delta recently made changes to its SkyMiles program that make it more difficult for customers to earn Medallion Status—or elite status with Delta—loyal Delta fliers can still benefit from the  Delta SkyMiles® Platinum Business American Express Card , which is well worth the $250 annual fee for some. Cardholders get their first checked bag free on Delta flights, a statement credit for Global Entry or TSA PreCheck®, an annual companion certificate, and trip delay and baggage insurance. With the annual companion certificate, you can receive a domestic Main Cabin round-trip ticket, so you’re essentially receiving a free airline ticket every year.  On top of these generous perks, cardholders earn 3 miles per $1 spent on eligible purchases made directly with Delta and on every eligible dollar spent on purchases made directly with Delta and hotels and 1.5 miles per $1 on single eligible purchases of $5,000 or more (up to 50,000 additional miles per calendar year).  This card may not offer lounge access, but you will get a status boost which makes it easier to attain Medallion Status. With Medallion status, you may be eligible to receive unlimited complimentary upgrades, travel vouchers, and more. Cardholders can earn 10,000 Medallion Qualification Miles (MQM) when they spend $25,000 on eligible purchases through 12/31/2023. While this benefit will no longer be effective starting 1/1/2024, beginning in February 2024, cardholders will still get a headstart of $2,500 Medallion Qualification Dollars toward Medallion status.  Though this boost is helpful, cardholders only earn $1 MQD when they spend $20. To achieve the lowest elite status Silver Medallion, which requires $5,000 MQDs, you would need to spend an additional $50,000 on your card, a steep amount for some.  Our methodology The Fortune Recommends TM  team analyzed more than 40 business credit cards across various issuers to come up with the top picks. Here are some of the key elements we ranked each card by: Please note that card details are accurate as of the publish date, but are subject to change at any time at the discretion of the issuer. Please contact the card issuer to verify rates, fees, and benefits before applying. Terms apply to American Express benefits and offers. Enrollment may be required for select American Express benefits and offers. Visit americanexpress.com to learn more. Eligibility and Benefit level varies by Card. Terms, Conditions, and Limitations Apply. Please visit americanexpress.com/benefitsguide for more details. Underwritten by Amex Assurance Company. Follow Fortune Recommends on  Facebook  and  Twitter . EDITORIAL DISCLOSURE : The advice, opinions, or rankings contained in this article are solely those of the Fortune Recommends ™   editorial team. This content has not been reviewed or endorsed by any of our affiliate partners or other third parties. © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .