URL: https://fortune.com/crypto/2023/12/04/bitcoin-40000-spot-etf-grayscale-blackrock-fidelity-sec-federal-reserve/
TITLE: Bitcoin roars past $40,000 as SEC’s next window to approve spot ETFs draws near | Fortune Crypto
Bitcoin roars past $40,000 as SEC’s next window to approve spot ETFs draws near Bitcoin, the first and largest cryptocurrency by market cap, rose to over $40,000 on Sunday, reaching a price not seen since April 2022. The popular cryptocurrency, which was trading above $41,500 at time of publication, is often seen as an indicator of broader market sentiment in the digital asset space, with other tokens also rising in value, including Ether, which broke $2,200. Analysts point to several factors behind the rally, including signs that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is  poised to approve  spot Bitcoin ETFs, including for the leading crypto asset manager  Grayscale , a subsidiary of Digital Currency Group. Grayscale  won  a landmark case against the SEC in August over its application to issue a spot Bitcoin ETF, which allows investors access to a fund that provides them with direct exposure to the current price of Bitcoin. Since the decision, which the SEC  declined  to appeal, Grayscale has  met  with representatives from the agency, including last week. The SEC’s next  approval window  is in early January. Other ETF applicants  include  TradFi giants such as Blackrock and Fidelity. After reaching an all-time high of nearly $69,000 in November 2021, Bitcoin plummeted in 2022 after the collapse of several well-known crypto projects, including the  Do Kwon -led Terra and the  Sam Bankman-Fried -led FTX. Bitcoin started 2023 under $17,000, with fears that more prominent crypto companies could fail, including the world's leading exchange, Binance. After a long-anticipated case by the Department of Justice, prosecutors finally  reached  a settlement with Binance founder and CEO Changpeng Zhao in November, with Zhao agreeing to step down and the company paying $4.3 billion in fines. Still, the firm will be allowed to keep operating, albeit with a U.S.-government-led monitorship, which is a  better-than-expected  outcome for many traders.  A rising tide While crypto acolytes often portray Bitcoin as an alternative to the traditional financial system, its price still tracks the performance of overall markets. Analysts point to expectations that the Federal Reserve could begin  cutting interest rates  in 2024, leading to investors making riskier bets, as another factor driving Bitcoin's rally. Other cryptocurrencies are not the only assets buoyed by Bitcoin's rise.  Coinbase , the leading U.S. crypto exchange, has seen its stock price rise by over 50% in the last month. Microstrategy, a publicly traded software company led by Michael Saylor that owns over $5 billion in Bitcoin, announced on Thursday that it had  acquired  an additional $593.3 million in Bitcoin at an average price of nearly $37,000.  Leading crypto industry figures are predicting the rally will continue, with Galaxy Digital CEO Mike Novogratz  telling  Bloomberg TV last week that the approval of a spot Bitcoin ETF in the U.S. could drive billions of dollars into the sector. © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices  
FORTUNE is a trademark of Fortune Media IP Limited, registered in the U.S. and other countries. FORTUNE may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. Offers may be subject to change without notice. 
S&P Index data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.  Terms & Conditions . Powered and implemented by  Interactive Data Managed Solutions .