URL: https://fortune.com/connect
TITLE: Fortune Connect
The global leadership development community for the next generation of purpose-driven executives Join us today and unlock your leadership potential. Interact with forward-thinking CEOs and thought leaders who are making business better. Previous guests include Ginni Rometty, Indra Nooyi, Amondo Redmond, Scott Kirby, and Albert Bourla. Learn from leading experts and education partners how to increase agility using state-of-the-art management thinking and develop skills as a purpose-driven leader. Build invaluable relationships with a growing international network of C-suite-bound leaders and work together to find solutions to leadership challenges in real time. We know that making an investment in your career can be daunting. The good news is that 80% of Fortune Connect members are sponsored by their employers, which means they pay nothing out of pocket to be a part of this vibrant, growing learning community. Use our email template to tap into your company’s official reimbursement plans, or unadvertised budgets for career development – and get your membership fees covered. An annual membership to Fortune Connect costs less than a two-day conference. Ginni Rometty  Former Chairman and CEO, IBM Marc Benioff  Chair and CEO, Salesforce Daniel Schulman  President and CEO, PayPal Ginni Rometty  • Former Chairman and CEO, IBM Marc Benioff   • Co-founder, chairman and CEO of Salesforce Daniel Schulman  • president and CEO, Paypal Great leaders unlock potential in their teams by developing clarity around purpose. You’ll have an opportunity to watch how PepsiCo’s former  Chairman and CEO, Indra Nooyi  defined and worked to align purpose with corporate performance and used this approach to guide PepsiCo corporate mission. 
 EMAIL  
 
 COUNTRY  —Please choose an option— 
 
 
 Δ document.getElementById( "ak_js_1" ).setAttribute( "value", ( new Date() ).getTime() ); © 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy  |  CA Notice at Collection and Privacy Notice  |  Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information  |  Ad Choices . FORTUNE is a trademark, registered in the U.S. and other countries, and FORTUNE  CONNECT  is a trademark, of Fortune Media IP Limited.